Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Abigail
Information
Birthday  Fall 13
Lives In Pelican Town
Address Pierre's General Store
Family
Pierre (Father)
Caroline (Mother)
Marriage Yes
Clinic Visit  Spring 4
Loved Gifts
Amethyst
Banana Pudding
Blackberry Cobbler
Chocolate Cake
Monster Compendium
Pufferfish
Pumpkin
Spicy Eel
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Two Hearts
5.2 Four Hearts
5.3 Six Hearts
5.4 Eight Hearts
5.5 Ten Hearts
5.5.1 After the 10-Heart Event
5.6 Group Ten-Heart Event
5.7 Fourteen Hearts
6 Marriage
7 Quotes
8 Questions
9 Quests
10 Portraits
11 Timeline
12 Gallery
13 Trivia
14 History
“ “Abigail lives at the general store with her parents. She sometimes fights with her mom, who worries about Abigail's "alternative lifestyle". Her mom has the following to say: "I wish Abby would dress more appropriately and stop dyeing her hair blue. She has such a wonderful natural hair color, just like her grandmother did. Oh, and I wish she’d find some wholesome interests instead of this occult nonsense she's into." You might find Abigail alone in the graveyard, or maybe out in a rainstorm looking for frogs.”
— Dev Update #12
Abigail is a villager who lives at Pierre's General Store in Pelican Town. She's one of the twelve characters available to marry.
Schedule
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Abigail may randomly spend the day there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Abigail will immediately go home to bed. Abigail never visits the Resort on Festival days or her checkup day at Harvey's Clinic.
Shown below are Abigail's schedules prioritized highest to lowest within each season. For example, if it is raining, that schedule overrides all others below it.
 Spring
 Summer
 Fall
 Winter
 Marriage
Relationships
Abigail lives with her parents, Pierre and Caroline, in the apartment behind her father's shop. Her mother will comment that she is concerned about Abigail's interests and hobbies.
Abigail is friends with Sam and Sebastian, and will dance with Sebastian at the Flower Dance if the player doesn't ask her or Sebastian to dance.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Abigail up to two gifts per week (plus one on her birthday), which will raise or lower her friendship with you. Gifts on her birthday ( 13 Fall) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved, liked, or neutral gifts, Abigail responds
“ “Hey, you remembered my birthday... Thanks, <player>! This is really nice!”
For disliked or hated gifts, Abigail responds
“ “Hey, you remembered my birthday... Thanks, <player>!
Oh, it's, uh... *sniff*... what is it?”
Love
“ “I seriously love this! You're the best, (Name)!”
Amethyst
“ “Wow... it's just my color! Thanks, (Name)!”
“ “Thank you! This is my favorite stone. It's so pretty.”
Magic Rock Candy
“ “Oh, wow... (Name)! Are you sure you want to give this to me? It's so rare!
I'll admit, my mouth is watering already...”
Monster Compendium
“ “Whoa, that's a creepy looking book... I love it!
*Flip* *flip* *flip*... Ooh... It's full of monsters...
I'll have to study this before going into the caves... Thanks!”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Wow... the color is so beautiful, like an amethyst. Thanks!”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Amethyst A purple variant of quartz. Mining
Banana Pudding A creamy dessert with a wonderful tropical flavor. Cooking
Banana (1)
Milk (1)
Sugar (1)
Blackberry Cobbler There's nothing quite like it. Cooking
Blackberry (2)
Sugar (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Chocolate Cake Rich and moist with a thick fudge icing. Cooking
Wheat Flour (1)
Sugar (1)
Egg (1)
Monster Compendium Monsters have a small chance to drop double loot. Books
Pufferfish Inflates when threatened. Fishing
Pumpkin A fall favorite, grown for its crunchy seeds and delicately flavored flesh. As a bonus, the hollow shell can be carved into a festive decoration. Farming
Spicy Eel It's really spicy! Be careful. Cooking
Eel (1)
Hot Pepper (1)
Like
“ “Hey, how'd you know I was hungry? This looks delicious!”
Note that Abigail will say this even when given a liked gift that is not a Food item.
Ancient Sword
“ “Whoa... Where'd you find this? The workmanship is fascinating...
It's a little too rusty to use, but I'll add it to my collection.”
Basilisk Paw
“ “Disgusting... I love it!”
Bone Flute
“ “This makes you wonder... Thousands of years ago, there was probably a little purple-haired cavewoman who played this flute, just like me.
...I'll have to wash it before pressing it to my lips, though.”
Combat Quarterly
“ “Hey, this is my favorite magazine! My Dad won't let me have a subscription, so I have to get it on the black market like this...”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes (except Vegetables)
Ancient Sword It's the remains of an ancient sword. Most of the blade has turned to rust, but the hilt is very finely crafted. Artifacts
Basilisk Paw You are immune to debuffs. Trinkets
Bone Flute It's a prehistoric wind instrument carved from an animal's bone. It produces an eerie tone. Artifacts
Combat Quarterly Read this to gain some combat experience. Books
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - The Mines
Neutral
“ “You brought me a present? Thanks.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals (except Combat Quarterly & Monster Compendium)
All Milk
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
Dislike
“ “What am I supposed to do with this?”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Ancient Sword, Basilisk Paw, Bone Flute, Clay & Pufferfish)
All Eggs*
All Fruit (except Fruit Tree Fruit)
All Vegetables (except Hops, Pumpkin, Tea Leaves, & Wheat)
Sugar Adds sweetness to pastries and candies. Too much can be unhealthy. Pierre's General Store, Mill
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Hate
“ “What were you thinking? This is awful!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates (except Sugar)
Clay Used in crafting and construction. Tilling
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
It Howls In The Rain
Mysterium
Like
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
Wumbus
Dislike
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Love
Rock Candy
Stardrop Sorbet
Dislike
Black Licorice
Hummus Snack Pack
Jasmine Tea
Joja Cola
JojaCorn
Kale Smoothie
Panzanella Salad
Like
Everything else
Heart Events
Two Hearts
Enter Pierre's General Store when Abigail is there, any day except Saturday.
Details 
Four Hearts
Visit the mountain between noon and 7pm on a rainy day, any season except Winter.
Details 
Six Hearts
Between 9pm and midnight on a day when it is not raining, enter Pelican Town from any direction. (This includes exiting homes or shops in Town.)
Details 
Eight Hearts
After receiving a letter from Abigail, enter Pierre's General Store between 8pm and 10pm when she's there. (Note that, unless you have the Key To The Town, you cannot enter the store from outside after 9pm, but you can wait in Caroline's greenhouse and trigger the event by exiting to the kitchen.)
Details 
Ten Hearts
Enter the mines or the Quarry Mine (or ascend from a lower floor of the mines) between 5pm and midnight. The event won't trigger if you've already given her the Mermaid's Pendant.
Details 
After the 10-Heart Event
After viewing Abigail's 10-heart event, she will appear in the Mines on level 20 on days when it is raining. She will not appear in a Multiplayer game, only in single-player mode.
The first time the player encounters Abigail in the Mines, she has unique dialogue. Thereafter, there is a 15% chance to find her playing the flute, and an 85% chance of finding her walking in place. If she is not playing the flute, she will speak to the player.
Group Ten-Heart Event
If the player is unmarried and has given a bouquet to all available bachelorettes, raised friendship with each bachelorette to 10 hearts, and seen each bachelorette's 10-heart event, then entering Haley/Emily's House will trigger a cutscene. If Haley is the final bachelorette you share a Ten-Heart Event with, the Group Ten-Heart Event will be unavoidable as it is triggered immediately afterwards.
Details 
This event will trigger only one time per save file. This event will not trigger if you are married or have given a Wilted Bouquet or Mermaid's Pendant to one of the marriage candidates.
Fourteen Hearts
Enter the Backwoods between 6:10am and 5pm.
Details 
Marriage
Main article: Marriage
Once married, Abigail will move into the farmhouse. Like other marriage candidates, she will add her own room to the right of the bedroom. She'll also set up a small area behind the farmhouse where she'll sometimes go to practice her flute.
On rainy days, Abigail may offer you Solar Essence, Bat Wing, Void Essence, Amethyst, or Fire Quartz. On rainy nights, she may offer you soup: Parsnip Soup, Tom Kha Soup, Trout Soup, Chowder, or Lobster Bisque. On days when Abigail stays inside the farmhouse all day, she may offer you a Cherry Bomb, a Bomb, Fried Mushroom, or Crab Cakes to assist with your adventuring in the Mines.
Marriage ceremony
Abigail's room
Abigail plays her flute
Quotes
Regular 
Events 
After Marriage 
Questions
Details 
Quests
Abigail may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points. Note that Abigail cannot be given this item while she is in the Mines.
Portraits
Timeline
Abigail's look evolved over the years the game was in development. Here's a timeline showing how ConcernedApe's art and Abigail's style changed over the years before the game was launched.
Gallery
Gif from Dev Update #12
Trivia
Giving her something she likes will result in her implying that she is going to eat the gift, regardless of what it is. This includes diamond, an item that is the hardest mineral on the Mohs hardness scale.
Abigail's top can be tailored using 1 Cloth and 1 Bone Flute, creating the Blue Long Vest.
Abigail has a pet guinea pig named "David". If Abigail moves in with the player, another guinea pig named "David Jr." will be present in her farmhouse room, while "David" stays behind in her original room at Pierre's General Store.
After a sufficient relationship is built up, Pierre will confess that he worries that Abigail is not his biological daughter. Later, the Wizard will mention that he has reason to believe one of the townsfolk is his daughter. At one point Caroline will mention that she used to take secret walks to the Wizard’s tower. Abigail will also stand outside the Wizard’s Tower sometimes. Some of Caroline's dialogue claims that Abigail's natural hair color is a light brown, as opposed to the purple color she dyes it, but with high relationship Abigail confides to the player that she can't remember the last time she dyed her hair and it never fades from purple.
Abigail has a poster of Crono hanging above her TV; Crono is a character from the Super Nintendo game "Chrono Trigger."
Abigail has a bow in her hair on her sprite, but no bow is shown on her portraits. This bow can, however, be seen in early versions of her portraits.
After the 10 heart cutscene, during rainy days in floor 20 of the Mines, Abigail will say [player name] (85% chance), which is helpful when using the item ID glitch. Floor 20 can be exited and reentered repeatedly, with an 85% chance of Abigail saying [player name] each time.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Added flute practice area behind farmhouse if married.
1.3.27: Added appearance in the Mines after viewing 10-heart event. Added group 10-heart event.
1.4: Added 14 heart event. Changed festival dialogue from "halloween" to "Spirit's Eve" in English.
1.5: Added beach portraits.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Ancient Sword and Bone Flute are now liked gifts. Added winter portraits and more beach portraits. Added Abigail Portrait.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: Marriage candidates