Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Achievements are displayed on the player menu, under the "Collections" tab, on the "Achievements" tab found at the bottom left, on every platform other than Xbox. If playing the game on Steam or PlayStation, additional achievements are available.
Achievements can unlock specific rewards within the game. Achievements for specific platforms, such as Steam, only need to be achieved once, but the associated rewards must be earned separately for each new game.
Unearned achievements appear as grayed-out on the player menu. Some achievements do not display on the player menu until completing other achievements.
Most achievements unlock a unique hat for sale at the abandoned house in Cindersap Forest. In addition, the day after earning "Gofer" (Complete 10 Help Wanted requests), Mayor Lewis will send 500g in the mail. The day after earning "A Big Help" (Complete 40 Help Wanted requests), Mayor Lewis will send 2,500g in the mail. The day after earning "Master Angler" (Catch every fish), Willy will send a Stardrop in the mail.
Contents
1 Achievements List
2 Notes
2.1 Fishing Achievements
2.2 Polyculture
2.3 Monoculture
2.4 Full Shipment
2.5 'Help Wanted' Quests
2.6 Friendship Achievements
2.7 Crafting Achievements
3 Retroactive Achievements
4 External Links
5 History
Achievements List
Achievements that do not have an in-game icon are platform-specific achievements. Platforms with extra achievements or trophies beyond (or instead of) the in-game achievements are: Steam, PlayStation, and Xbox.
Platform Icon In-Game Icon Achievement Description Unlocks
Greenhorn Earn 15,000g
Good Ol' Cap
Cowpoke Earn 50,000g
Lucky Bow
Homesteader Earn 250,000g
Cool Cap
Millionaire Earn 1,000,000g
Bowler Hat
Legend Earn 10,000,000g (Secret Achievement)
Sombrero
A Complete Collection Complete the museum collection.
Cowboy Hat
A New Friend Reach a 5-heart friend level with someone.
Butterfly Bow
Best Friends Reach a 10-heart friend level with someone.
Mouse Ears
The Beloved Farmer Reach a 10-heart friend level with 8 people.
Cat Ears
Cliques Reach a 5-heart friend level with 4 people.
Tiara
Networking Reach a 5-heart friend level with 10 people.
Santa Hat
Popular Reach a 5-heart friend level with 20 people.
Earmuffs
Cook Cook 10 different recipes.
Delicate Bow
Sous Chef Cook 25 different recipes.
Plum Chapeau
Gourmet Chef Cook every recipe.
Archer's Cap
Chef Hat
Moving Up Upgrade your house.
Tropiclip
Living Large Upgrade your house to the maximum size. (2nd upgrade, not cellar)
Hunter's Cap
D.I.Y. Craft 15 different items.
Daisy
Artisan Craft 30 different items.
Trucker Hat
Craft Master Craft every item.
Gnome's Cap
Fisherman Catch 10 different fish.
Sou'wester
Ol' Mariner Catch 24 different fish.
Official Cap
Master Angler Catch every fish.
Eye Patch
Mother Catch Catch 100 fish.
Watermelon Band
Treasure Trove Donate 40 different items to the museum.
Blue Bonnet
Gofer Complete 10 'Help Wanted' requests.
Polka Bow
A Big Help Complete 40 'Help Wanted' requests.
Chicken Mask
Polyculture Ship 15 of each crop. See (note below)
Cowpoke Hat
Monoculture Ship 300 of one crop. See (note below)
Cowgal Hat
Full Shipment Ship every item.
Goblin Mask
Prairie King Beat 'Journey of the Prairie King'.
Prairie King Arcade System
The Bottom Reach the lowest level of the mines.
Skull Key
Local Legend Restore the Pelican Town Community Center.
Stardew Hero Trophy
Joja Co. Member Of The Year Purchase all Joja Community Development projects.
Soda Machine
Mystery Of The Stardrops Find every stardrop.
Full House Get married and have two kids.
Singular Talent Reach level 10 in a skill.
Master Of The Five Ways Reach level 10 in every skill.
Protector Of The Valley Complete all of the Adventure Guild Monster Slayer goals.
Fector's Challenge Beat 'Journey Of The Prairie King' without dying. (Secret Achievement)
A Distant Shore Reach Ginger Island.
Paper Hat
Well-Read Read every book. Note: This applies to power books only.
Pageboy Cap
Two Thumbs Up See a movie.
Jester Hat
Blue Ribbon Get 1st place in the Stardew Valley Fair competition.
Blue Ribbon
An Unforgettable Soup Delight the Governor.
Governor's Hat
Good Neighbors Help your forest neighbors grow their family.
White Bow
Danger In The Deep Reach the bottom of the 'dangerous' mines.
Space Helmet
Infinite Power Obtain the most powerful weapon.
Infinity Crown
Perfection Reach the summit.
Junimo Hat
Notes
Fishing Achievements
Catching Green Algae, White Algae, Seaweed, River Jelly, Sea Jelly, or Cave Jelly counts towards the 4 fishing achievements (Fisherman, Ol' Mariner, Master Angler, and Mother Catch). Catching Trash does not count towards these achievements. Catching the quest fish for the Extended Family Qi's quest are not required to obtain the Master Angler achievement.
Polyculture
There are exactly 28 Crops that must be shipped to earn the Polyculture achievement ("Ship 15 of each crop"):
Spring Crops
Cauliflower
Coffee Bean
Garlic
Green Bean
Kale
Parsnip
Potato
Rhubarb
Strawberry
Summer Crops
Blueberry
Corn
Hops
Hot Pepper
Melon
Radish
Red Cabbage
Starfruit
Tomato
Wheat
Fall Crops
Amaranth
Artichoke
Beet
Bok Choy
Cranberries
Eggplant
Grape
Pumpkin
Yam
Monoculture
To earn the Monoculture achievement ("Ship 300 of one crop"), one of 33 Crops can be chosen -- any of the 28 crops listed above, or
Ancient Fruit
Blue Jazz
Fairy Rose
Summer Spangle
Tulip
Full Shipment
To earn the Full Shipment achievement ("Ship every item"), at least one of every item shown in the Shipping Collection tab of the player menu must be shipped.
'Help Wanted' Quests
The weekly quests on the Special Orders board and the weekly quests on Qi's Special Orders board count towards the Gofer ("Complete 10 'Help Wanted' requests") and A Big Help ("Complete 40 'Help Wanted' requests") achievements.
Friendship Achievements
The level of friendship with the player's children affects friendship achievements ("A New Friend", "Best Friends", "The Beloved Farmer", "Cliques", "Networking", and "Popular").
Crafting Achievements
The Wedding Ring does not count towards crafting achievements ("D.I.Y.", "Artisan", and "Craft Master"), even in Multiplayer games.
Retroactive Achievements
An achievement may not unlock properly in rare cases (e.g., because the game couldn't send the achievement to the underlying platform like Steam). Missed achievements will be resent automatically when loading the save or sleeping in-game.
On PlayStation and Xbox consoles only, the game isn't allowed to resend trophies/Achievements automatically. It will instead resend those when a relevant action is performed:
Missed Achievement Resent When
Full House Kiss your spouse.
Local Legend
Joja Co. Member Of The Year Enter the Community Center or JojaMart.
Mystery Of The Stardrops Visit the Mastery Cave.
Prairie King
Fector's Challenge Begin Journey of the Prairie King.
Protector Of The Valley Kill any monster.
Singular Talent
Master of the Five Ways Visit the Mastery Cave.
The Bottom Visit level 120 of the Mines.
External Links
Users with access to their saved game files may find the "Stardew Checkup" utility helpful for tracking their achievement progress. The utility is located at: https://mouseypounds.github.io/stardew-checkup/
Global gameplay stats of achievements can be found for:
PlayStation at https://www.truetrophies.com/game/Stardew-Valley/trophies
Steam at: https://steamcommunity.com/stats/413150/achievements/
Xbox at: https://www.trueachievements.com/game/Stardew-Valley/achievements/
History
1.05: Fixed Fector's Challenge.
1.4: Fixed bug allowing Master Angler to be earned before catching all fish.
1.5: The Wedding Ring no longer needs to be crafted in multiplayer to earn "Craft Master".
1.6: Added new achievements. Changed in-game icon for several existing achievements.
1.6.9: The game now resends most missed achievements. For PlayStation/Xbox players, missed trophies are readded when performing a specific action instead.
Category: Achievements