Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Alex
Information
Birthday  Summer 13
Lives In Pelican Town
Address 1 River Road
Family
Evelyn (Grandmother)
George (Grandfather)
Marriage Yes
Clinic Visit  Summer 16
Loved Gifts
Complete Breakfast
Jack Be Nimble, Jack Be Thick
Salmon Dinner
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Two Hearts
5.2 Four Hearts
5.3 Five Hearts
5.4 Six Hearts
5.5 Eight Hearts
5.6 Ten Hearts
5.7 Group Ten-Heart Event
5.8 Fourteen Hearts
6 Marriage
7 Quotes
8 Questions
9 Quests
10 Portraits
11 Timeline
12 Trivia
13 History
“ “Alex loves sports and hanging out at the beach. He is quite arrogant and brags to everyone that he is going to be a professional athlete. Is his cockiness just a facade to mask his crushing self-doubt? Is he using his sports dream to fill the void left by the disappearance of his parents? Or is he just a brazen youth trying to 'look cool?'”
— Dev Update #12
Alex is a villager who lives in the house southeast of Pierre's General Store. He's one of the twelve characters available to marry.
Schedule
During Spring and Fall, Alex exits his home at 8am unless it is raining. He stands by the tree to the right of his house, playing with his gridball, and he moves towards the left of the fenced-in area in the afternoon.
During Summer, he can be found on the beach in the morning and running the Ice Cream Stand to the left of the museum in the afternoon. On the 16th of Summer, he has an appointment at the clinic.
During Winter, he works out at the Spa almost every day. When he is not there, he will be at his house.
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Alex may randomly spend the day there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Alex will immediately go home to bed. Alex never visits the Resort on Festival days or his checkup day at Harvey's Clinic.
Shown below are Alex's schedules prioritized highest to lowest. For example, if it is raining, that schedule overrides all others below it.
 Spring
 Summer
 Fall
 Winter
 Marriage
Relationships
Alex lives with his grandparents, George and Evelyn. He is friends with Haley, and will dance with her at the Flower Dance if neither of them are dancing with the player. He also has a dog named Dusty. You can find Dusty's name from Pam or from Alex in a cutscene.
Parents 
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Alex up to two gifts per week (plus one on his birthday), which will raise or lower his friendship with you. Gifts on his birthday ( 13 Summer) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved gifts, Alex responds
“ “Aw yeah, that's the good stuff... Thanks for the birthday gift, <player>.”
For liked gifts, Alex responds
“ “You remembered my birthday? I'm impressed. Thanks.”
“ “Oh, is it my birthday today? I guess it is. Thanks. This is nice.”
For neutral gifts, Alex responds
“ “For my birthday? Thanks.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Alex responds
“ “What the...? Uh, I dunno what it's like where you grew up, but to me, this is trash.”
Love
“ “Hey, awesome! I love this stuff!”
Jack Be Nimble, Jack Be Thick
“ “Aw, yeah... I've been looking for this one. It's supposed to be full of tips for bulking up. Rule number one... Eat a ton of eggs! Hah, no problem! Thanks!”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Whoa... this is great. Thanks!”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Complete Breakfast You'll feel ready to take on the world! Cooking
Fried Egg (1)
Milk (1)
Hashbrowns (1)
Pancakes (1)
Jack Be Nimble, Jack Be Thick Gain +1 Defense. Books
Salmon Dinner The lemon spritz makes it special. Cooking
Salmon (1)
Amaranth (1)
Kale (1)
Like
“ “This is cool! Thanks.”
Any Egg (from Chickens)
“ “Hey, thanks. Eggs are great for bulking up. *crack*... *sluuurp*... Mmmm. Now that's what I call a snack.”
Dinosaur Egg
“ “Now that's what I call an egg! Imagine the size of the omelet...”
Duck Egg
“ “Mmm... Duck egg... Rich and creamy. *crack*... *slurp*. Ahhhh...”
Field Snack
“ “*crunch*... Mmm... Nuts. That hits the spot. Thanks, (Name)!”
Golden Egg
“ “Hehe... Keep giving me these every day, and I'll be able to retire at thirty!”
Ostrich Egg
“ “Whoaa... It's so heavy I could use it for bicep curls. I'll be slurping on this for a week! Hah hah!”
Parrot Egg
“ “Can you eat this? I guess there's only one way to find out...”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Likes
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
Dinosaur Egg A giant dino egg... The entire shell is still intact! Artifacts
Field Snack A quick snack to fuel the hungry forager. Crafting
Acorn (1)
Maple Seed (1)
Pine Cone (1)
Parrot Egg Summons a level X parrot companion, who grants you a Y chance to find gold coins when slaying monsters. Trinkets
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Neutral
“ “Thanks!”
Frog Egg
“ “Umm... I know I'm pretty big on eggs... But this isn't what I meant... Oh well... Down the hatch! *gulp*”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals (except Books)
All Fruit (except Fruit Tree Fruit & Salmonberry)
All Milk
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Frog Egg Summons a hungry frog companion. Trinkets
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Tilling - Winter
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Tilling - Winter
Dislike
“ “Um... Okay. Thanks.”
Any Book (except Jack Be Nimble, Jack Be Thick)
“ “Uhhh... Reading? Yeah, um... I guess I can give it a try.”
Void Egg
“ “Oh... um... I usually like eggs, but this one looks evil.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Dinosaur Egg, Field Snack, Frog Egg, & Parrot Egg)
All Books (except Jack Be Nimble, Jack Be Thick)
Salmonberry A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest. Foraging - Spring
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Hate
“ “Are you serious? This is garbage.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - The Mines
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
It Howls In The Rain
Wumbus
Like
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Mysterium
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Dislike
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
Love
Salmon Burger
Stardrop Sorbet
Dislike
Black Licorice
Cotton Candy
Jawbreaker
Joja Cola
JojaCorn
Rock Candy
Sour Slimes
Like
Everything else
Heart Events
Two Hearts
On a sunny Summer day, visit the Beach when Alex is there.
Details 
Four Hearts
Enter town between 9am and 4pm.
Details 
Five Hearts
Enter Alex's house when he's there.
Details 
Six Hearts
Enter Alex's house when he's there.
Details 
Eight Hearts
On a sunny day, visit the Beach when Alex is there. He is only scheduled to go to the beach in Summer, but may pass by on the way to the Ginger Island resort in any season after it is completed.
Details 
Ten Hearts
Alex will send you a letter to meet him at the Saloon after dark. After receiving the letter, enter the Saloon between 7pm and 10pm.
Details 
Group Ten-Heart Event
If the player is unmarried and has given a bouquet to all available bachelors, raised friendship with each bachelor to 10 hearts, and seen each bachelor's 10-heart event, then entering The Stardrop Saloon will trigger a cutscene. If Alex is the final bachelor you share a Ten-Heart Event with, the Group Ten-Heart Event will be unavoidable as it is triggered immediately afterwards.
Details 
This event will trigger only one time per save file. This event will not trigger if you are married or have given a Wilted Bouquet or Mermaid's Pendant to one of the marriage candidates.
Fourteen Hearts
Exit the Farmhouse in year 2+ between 6am and 8:20am on any day other than Sunday. You must have 5,000g available.
Details 
Marriage
Main article: Marriage
Once married, Alex will move into the farmhouse. Like other marriage candidates, he will add his own room to the right of the bedroom. He'll also setup a workout space behind the farmhouse where he'll sometimes go to lift weights.
On rainy nights, Alex may offer you dinner: Survival Burger, Dish O' The Sea, Fried Eel, Crispy Bass, or Baked Fish. On days when he stays inside the farmhouse all day, he may make you breakfast: Omelet, Hashbrowns, or Pancakes.
Alex's room
Alex lifts weights in his outdoor space
Quotes
Regular 
Events 
After Marriage 
Questions
Wednesday
Male players:
"I'd ask you to throw the ball around, but you don't really seem like the sports type."
Female players:
“If you weren’t a girl I’d ask you to play catch.”
I'm fine just watching you from a distance. (No effect on friendship.)
Alex responds: "Yeah, some people just aren't made for sports."
I want to play catch with you! (+15 friendship.)
Alex responds: "Really? I guess I underestimated you. My arm's a little sore, but maybe next time."
(angry) What's that supposed to mean? (No effect on friendship.)
Alex responds: "Uh...Nevermind."

Summer, Wednesday
Male players:
"Hey farm guy, I've got a question for you. Do you think I'll ever turn pro?"
Female players:
"Hey farm girl, I've got a question for you. Do you think I'll ever turn pro?"
You're destined to be a sports legend (+30 friendship.)
Alex responds: "Hey, Now that's what I'm talking about!"
Maybe if you practice a lot (No effect on friendship.)
Alex responds: "Yeah, well I'm so good I'm not going to have to practice all that much."
No, you'll most likely fail and become a salesman (-30 friendship.)
Alex responds: "That's insane. You're just jealous that I'm talented and popular and you're not. Get away from me."

Fall, Wednesday
"Do you think ladies like my haircut? / What do you think about my haircut?"
It looks very fashionable. (+30 friendship.)
Alex responds: "Yeah, I know. That's why I have it like this."
It looks like some kind of fungal growth. (-30 friendship.)
Alex responds: "Yeah, right. You're just jealous that I look so good."
Quests
Alex may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
Portraits
Timeline
Alex's look evolved over the years the game was in development. Here's a timeline showing how ConcernedApe's art and Alex's style changed over the years before the game was launched.
Trivia
At one point before the game was released, Alex was named "Josh".
It is possible to trigger Alex's eight-heart event in any season after repairing Willy's Boat if you follow him on his way to Ginger Island.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Added workout area behind farmhouse if married.
1.3.27: Added group 10-heart event.
1.4: Added 14 heart event.
1.5: Added beach portraits. Eight-heart event can now be triggered on Ginger Island.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Now likes Dinosaur Egg and Field Snack. Added winter portraits and more beach portraits. Added Alex Portrait.
1.6.15: Updated gridball portrait to have 5 fingers instead of 4.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: Marriage candidates