Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Anchor
It may have belonged to ancient pirates.
Information
Artifact Spots: The Beach (4%)
Monster Drops: N/A
Other Sources:
Fishing Treasure Chest
Artifact Trove
Sell Price: 100g
For the Furniture item, see Anchor (Furniture)
The Anchor is an Artifact that can be found by digging up an Artifact Spot at the Beach or from Fishing Treasure Chests. It also has a chance to appear inside Artifact Troves.
Contents
1 Donation
2 Gifting
3 Tailoring
4 Quests
5 History
Donation
Donation of this item contributes to the total count of donations for the Museum.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Dwarf •  Penny
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Tailoring
The Anchor is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Captain's Uniform.
Quests
The Anchor is not used in any quests.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.4: Added Artifact Trove as a source. Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Artifacts are now liked by the Dwarf and Penny, disliked by all other NPCs.
1.6: Can now be used as decoration in Fish Tanks.
Artifacts
Artifacts Amphibian Fossil • Anchor • Ancient Doll • Ancient Drum • Ancient Seed • Ancient Sword • Arrowhead • Bone Flute • Chewing Stick • Chicken Statue • Chipped Amphora • Dinosaur Egg • Dried Starfish • Dwarf Gadget • Dwarf Scroll I • Dwarf Scroll II • Dwarf Scroll III • Dwarf Scroll IV • Dwarvish Helm • Elvish Jewelry • Glass Shards • Golden Mask • Golden Relic • Nautilus Fossil • Ornamental Fan • Palm Fossil • Prehistoric Handaxe • Prehistoric Rib • Prehistoric Scapula • Prehistoric Skull • Prehistoric Tibia • Prehistoric Tool • Prehistoric Vertebra • Rare Disc • Rusty Cog • Rusty Spoon • Rusty Spur • Skeletal Hand • Skeletal Tail • Strange Doll (green) • Strange Doll (yellow) • Trilobite
Category: Artifacts