Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Ancient Doll
An ancient doll covered in grime. This doll may have been used as a toy, a decoration, or a prop in some kind of ritual.
Information
Artifact Spots:
The Mountain (3%)
Bus Stop (2.4%)
Cindersap Forest (2.4%)
Pelican Town (0.8%)
Monster Drops: N/A
Other Sources:
Fishing Treasure Chest
Artifact Trove
Sell Price: 60g
The Ancient Doll is an Artifact that can be found by digging up an Artifact Spot in The Mountain, Cindersap Forest, Bus Stop, or Pelican Town, and inside Fishing Treasure Chests and Artifact Troves. It can also be received as a gift from Jas, Leo, or Vincent at the Feast of the Winter Star. It can also be gifted by a pet dog with max friendship.
It is sold by Jas at the Desert Festival for 1 Calico Egg.
Contents
1 Donation
2 Gifting
3 Bundles
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 Secrets
7 History
Donation
Donation of this item contributes to the total count of donations for the Museum.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Jas
Like  Dwarf •  Penny
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Ancient Doll is an option in the Children's Bundle on the Bulletin Board (Remixed).
Tailoring
Ancient Doll is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Doll Shirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a blue dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Ancient Doll is not used in any quests.
Secrets
The Ancient Doll is a recurring part of the dove children secrets.
The Ancient Doll can be used to obtain a secret item by throwing it (right-clicking) into the lava pool on floor 100 of the Mines or in the Volcano Caldera.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.4: Added Artifact Trove as a source. Can now be used in Tailoring. Added secret source.
1.5: Artifacts are now liked by the Dwarf and Penny, disliked by all other NPCs. Is now used in a remixed bundle.
1.6: Can now be used to obtain Far Away Stone. Now obtainable during Desert Festival. Now loved by Jas. Can now be gifted by a pet dog with max friendship.
Artifacts
Artifacts Amphibian Fossil • Anchor • Ancient Doll • Ancient Drum • Ancient Seed • Ancient Sword • Arrowhead • Bone Flute • Chewing Stick • Chicken Statue • Chipped Amphora • Dinosaur Egg • Dried Starfish • Dwarf Gadget • Dwarf Scroll I • Dwarf Scroll II • Dwarf Scroll III • Dwarf Scroll IV • Dwarvish Helm • Elvish Jewelry • Glass Shards • Golden Mask • Golden Relic • Nautilus Fossil • Ornamental Fan • Palm Fossil • Prehistoric Handaxe • Prehistoric Rib • Prehistoric Scapula • Prehistoric Skull • Prehistoric Tibia • Prehistoric Tool • Prehistoric Vertebra • Rare Disc • Rusty Cog • Rusty Spoon • Rusty Spur • Skeletal Hand • Skeletal Tail • Strange Doll (green) • Strange Doll (yellow) • Trilobite
Category: Artifacts