Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Ancient Sword
It's the remains of an ancient sword. Most of the blade has turned to rust, but the hilt is very finely crafted.
Information
Artifact Spots:
Cindersap Forest (0.7%)
The Mountain (0.6%)
Monster Drops: N/A
Other Sources:
Fishing Treasure Chest
Artifact Trove
Sell Price: 100g
The Ancient Sword is an Artifact that can be found by digging up an Artifact Spot in Cindersap Forest or the Mountains, and from Fishing Treasure Chests or Artifact Troves. It can also be gifted by a pet dog with max friendship.
Contents
1 Donation
2 Gifting
3 Bundles
4 Recipes
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 Trivia
8 History
Donation
Donation of this item contributes to the total count of donations for the Museum.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Abigail •  Dwarf •  Penny
Dislike  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Ancient Sword is not used in any bundles.
Recipes
Ancient Sword is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Ancient Sword is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with Cloth in the feed to create a Green Tunic. It is a gray dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed.
Quests
Ancient Sword is not used in any quests.
Trivia
The green tunic tailored from ancient sword and cloth is similar to the green tunic worn by Link in The Legend of Zelda series of video games.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.4: Added Artifact Trove as a source. Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Artifacts are now liked by the Dwarf and Penny, disliked by all other NPCs.
1.6: Ancient Sword is now liked by Abigail. Can now be gifted by a pet dog with max friendship.
1.6.4: Can now be added to Fish Tanks as decoration.
Artifacts
Artifacts Amphibian Fossil • Anchor • Ancient Doll • Ancient Drum • Ancient Seed • Ancient Sword • Arrowhead • Bone Flute • Chewing Stick • Chicken Statue • Chipped Amphora • Dinosaur Egg • Dried Starfish • Dwarf Gadget • Dwarf Scroll I • Dwarf Scroll II • Dwarf Scroll III • Dwarf Scroll IV • Dwarvish Helm • Elvish Jewelry • Glass Shards • Golden Mask • Golden Relic • Nautilus Fossil • Ornamental Fan • Palm Fossil • Prehistoric Handaxe • Prehistoric Rib • Prehistoric Scapula • Prehistoric Skull • Prehistoric Tibia • Prehistoric Tool • Prehistoric Vertebra • Rare Disc • Rusty Cog • Rusty Spoon • Rusty Spur • Skeletal Hand • Skeletal Tail • Strange Doll (green) • Strange Doll (yellow) • Trilobite
Category: Artifacts