Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Bait
Causes fish to bite faster. Must first be attached to a fishing rod.
Information
Source Fish Shop • Crafting • Fishing Treasure Chests • Worm Bin
Energy Inedible
Sell Price 1g
Crafting
Recipe Source
Fishing (Level 2)
Ingredients
Bug Meat (1)
Produces 5 Bait per craft
Bait is used to reduce the delay before a nibble on a fishing rod by 50%.[1] It can be purchased from the Fish Shop after reaching Fishing Level 2 for 5g each, crafted after reaching Fishing Level 2, grown in a Worm Bin, or found in Fishing Treasure Chests. It may also randomly appear at the Traveling Cart for 100–1,000g.
Bait cannot be used with the Training Rod or the Bamboo Pole. Only the Fiberglass Rod, the Iridium Rod, and the Advanced Iridium Rod can use bait. Bait can also be used with Crab Pots.
Contents
1 Use
2 Gifting
3 Bundles
4 Crafting
5 Dyeing
6 Quests
7 Trivia
8 Tips
9 References
10 History
Use
Requires: Fiberglass Rod, Iridium Rod, or Advanced Iridium Rod.
Each cast uses one piece of bait or one magnet. When all bait is used up, the game pops up a notification saying "You've used your last piece of bait."
To attach bait to a fishing rod, open the inventory, click on the bait ( left-click or right-click, depending on how many bait will be used), and then on the rod. To remove bait, on the rod.
On an Xbox controller, press on the bait to select the whole stack (or to pick up a single one), then to attach to the rod.
On a PS4 controller, press on the bait to select the whole stack (or to pick up a single one), then to attach to the rod.
On a Nintendo Switch Controller, Press on the bait to select the whole stack (Or to pick up a single one), then to attach to the rod.
Bait can be detached by pressing on either Controller. ( on Nintendo Switch)
For the mobile version, bait can be added to the fishing rod by opening the inventory, then dragging the bait and dropping it on top of the rod. Bait cannot be removed on mobile.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Bait is not used in any bundles.
Crafting
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Deluxe Bait (5) Causes fish to bite even faster and increases size of the "fishing bar".
Bait (5)
Moss (2)
Fishing Level 4
Dyeing
Bait can be used as a red dye color in the dye pots in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Bait is not used in any quests.
Trivia
Prior to version 1.6, thirty bait was the reward for completing the River Fish Bundle in the Fish Tank.
Tips
Levels 21-29 of The Mines and the Mutant Bug Lair are generally the best sources of bug meat for players focusing on fishing.
References
↑ See FishingRod::calculateTimeUntilFishingBite in the game code.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.6: No longer the reward for completing the River Fish Bundle in the Fish Tank. Can be used in the Advanced Iridium Rod. Now used to craft Deluxe Bait.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Category: Bait