Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Barbed Hook
Makes your catch more secure, causing the "fishing bar" to cling to your catch. Works best on slow, weak fish.
Information
Source Fish Shop • Crafting • Festival of Ice
Sell Price 500g
Crafting
Recipe Source
Fishing (Level 8)
Ingredients
Copper Bar (1)
Iron Bar (1)
Gold Bar (1)
The Barbed Hook is a tackle that helps fishing by keeping the fishing bar attached to the catch. It can be crafted or purchased from Willy's Fish Shop for 1,000g after reaching Fishing level 8. It may also randomly appear at the Traveling Cart for 1,500–2,500g. A Barbed Hook is one of the rewards the player gets the first time they win the fishing competition at the Festival of Ice.
Using two Barbed Hooks on an Advanced Iridium Rod causes the fishing bar to cling more effectively to the catch compared to using one.
Only the Iridium Rod or the Advanced Iridium Rod can equip tackle. The Iridium Rod can only attach one tackle at a time, while the Advanced Iridium Rod can attach two. To attach tackle, left-click on the tackle, then right-click on the rod. To remove tackle, first right-click to remove any bait, then right-click to remove the tackle. For an Advanced Iridium Rod, the left tackle will be the first one removed.
Tackle does not stack in inventory or chests; each tackle takes up one inventory slot.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Quests
4 Notes
5 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
The Barbed Hook is not used in any bundles.
Quests
The Barbed Hook is not used in any quests.
Notes
The fishing bar can be moved manually while a Barbed Hook is in use, although it is more difficult, especially with slower fish. The more the fish darts up and down, the easier it is to move the fishing bar manually, and the less effective the Barbed Hook is.
Crafting and selling a Barbed Hook is 70g more profitable than selling 1 Copper Bar, 1 Iron Bar, and 1 Gold Bar without the Blacksmith Profession. With the Blacksmith Profession, it is more profitable to sell the bars individually instead of crafting a Barbed Hook.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.6: Using two Barbed Hooks causes the fishing bar to cling even more effectively to the catch.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Categories: Fishing TackleCraftable items