Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Barn Big Barn Deluxe Barn
Information
Upgrades From N/A Barn Big Barn
Building Cost 6,000g 12,000g 25,000g
Building Materials
Wood (350)
Stone (150)
Wood (450)
Stone (200)
Wood (550)
Stone (300)
Capacity 4 8 12
Animals
Cow
Ostrich
Cow
Goat
Ostrich
Cow
Goat
Sheep
Pig
Ostrich
Footprint 7x4
7x4
7x4
Features
Hay Hopper
Feeding Bench
Hay Hopper
Feeding Bench
Enables Pregnancy
Hay Hopper
Feeding Bench
Enables Pregnancy
Autofeed System
The Barn is a type of farm building purchasable and upgradeable from Robin at the Carpenter's Shop.
Contents
1 Construction
2 Features
3 Bugs
4 Interior
Construction
The Barn takes three days to initially construct. During this time, Robin is unreachable for dialogue or gifting.
Upgrading the Barn requires two days. During this time, the barn can be used as normal. Robin can be found inside the Barn for purposes such as dialogue or gifting.
The total cost of a Deluxe Barn, built from scratch, is 43,000g Wood (1350) Stone (650); or, if all wood and stone are bought from Robin during year 1, 69,500g, and 175,500g if bought in year 2+.
Features
The barn houses cows, goats, sheep, pigs, and ostriches. Once you have unlocked an animal by building the barn needed to house it, that animal can be placed in any other non-upgraded barns you have built as well.
Barn Animals may be stuck outside at night if the barn doors are closed. The conditions for this are not clear (see Animals trapped outside). If an animal is stuck outside the barn at night, the next day their mood will be "grumpy." Animals stuck outside are also subject to Wild Animal Attacks.
The Barn can also be used in a manner similar to the Shed for storing Chests, Artisan Equipment, Furniture, etc.. The animals are undisturbed by the clutter, even if their paths are blocked.
Bugs
It is possible to have 13 animals in a barn at once, if the player has a barn filled with 11 animals and an existing animal gives birth the same night as an Ostrich Egg hatches.
Interior
Barn Interior
Big Barn Interior
Deluxe Barn Interior
Buildings
Merchants Abandoned House • Adventurer's Guild • Blacksmith • Bookseller • Carpenter's Shop • Casino • Desert Trader • Fish Shop • Giant Stump • Harvey's Clinic • Ice Cream Stand • Island Trader • JojaMart • Marnie's Ranch • Oasis • Pierre's General Store • Qi's Walnut Room • The Stardrop Saloon • Traveling Cart • Volcano Dwarf • Wizard's Tower
Houses 1 River Road • 2 River Road • 1 Willow Lane • 2 Willow Lane • 24 Mountain Road • Elliott's Cabin • Farmhouse • Island Farmhouse • Leah's Cottage • Mayor's Manor • Tent • Trailer • Treehouse
Farm Buildings Farming Barn • Cabin • Coop • Fish Pond • Greenhouse • Mill • Pet Bowl • Shed • Silo • Slime Hutch • Stable • Well
Special Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Gold Clock • Island Obelisk • Junimo Hut • Water Obelisk
Other Buildings Community Center • Dog Pen • Island Field Office • Joja Warehouse • Movie Theater • Museum • Spa • Witch's Hut
Category: Farm buildings