Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Battery Pack
It's fully charged with precious energy.
Information
Source
Lightning Rod
Solar Panel
Iridium Bat (5%)
Stingray Fish Pond
Sell Price 500g
The Battery Pack is a resource created in the Lightning Rod during thunderstorms or the Solar Panel after 7 sunny days.
To acquire a Battery Pack from a Lightning Rod, during a thunderstorm a particular sound will be heard, which means that one of the rods is now charged, pulsating with energy. There is no guarantee that a specific lightning rod will be struck by lightning during a thunderstorm. On the day after the storm, a Battery Pack can be acquired from it.
Battery Packs can sometimes be purchased from the Traveling Cart for 1,500–2,500g and can be sold to Robin at the Carpenter's Shop. Very rarely, a Battery Pack can be dropped by breaking boxes or crates in the Skull Cavern. They may also be dropped by Iridium Bats (5% chance). Three Battery Packs are the reward for completing the Children's Bundle on the Bulletin Board (Remixed). Kent and Pam may also send the player a Battery Pack in the mail. They can also be acquired from a Stingray Fish Pond with a population of at least 9.
Contents
1 Crafting
2 Gifting
3 Bundles
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 Gallery
7 History
Crafting
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Iridium Sprinkler Waters the 24 adjacent tiles every morning.
Battery Pack (1)
Gold Bar (1)
Iridium Bar (1)
Farming Level 9
Crystalarium Insert a gem of your choice and it will grow copies.
Battery Pack (1)
Stone (99)
Gold Bar (5)
Iridium Bar (2)
Mining Level 9
Slime Egg-Press Compresses 100 pieces of slime into a slime egg. It's a miracle of science!
Battery Pack (1)
Coal (25)
Fire Quartz (1)
Combat Level 6
Wood Lamp-post Provides a good amount of light.
Battery Pack (1)
Wood (50)
Carpenter's Shop (500g)
Iron Lamp-post Provides a good amount of light.
Battery Pack (1)
Iron Bar (1)
Carpenter's Shop (1,000g)
Mini-Jukebox Allows you to play your favorite tunes.
Battery Pack (1)
Iron Bar (2)
Gus 5-heart event
Farm Computer Scans the farm and displays useful information.
Battery Pack (1)
Dwarf Gadget (1)
Refined Quartz (10)
Demetrius (Special Order)
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Maru
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Battery Pack is used in the Engineer's Bundle in the Boiler Room (Remixed).
Tailoring
Battery Pack is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with Cloth in the feed to create a Shirt. It is a cyan dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed. It can be placed in the blue dye pot at Emily's and Haley's house for use in dyeing.
Quests
A Battery Pack is needed for "The Mysterious Qi" quest.
Pam requests a Battery Pack by mail on the 19th of Fall (year 2) in the "Pam Needs Juice" quest. The reward is 400g and 1 Friendship heart.
Willy's Boat needs 5 Battery Packs to repair the ticket stand.
Gallery
Uncharged vs Charged Lightning Rod
Lightning striking a Lightning Rod
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Used as an ingredient to the Mini-Jukebox recipe.
1.5: Is now used in a remixed bundle. Used as an ingredient to the Farm Computer recipe. Five are now required to repair Willy's Boat. Can now be obtained from Stingray Fish Ponds and Solar Panels.
Resources
Basic Battery Pack • Bone Fragment • Cinder Shard • Clay • Coal • Fiber • Hardwood • Moss • Stone • Wood
Ore Copper Ore • Iron Ore • Gold Ore • Iridium Ore • Radioactive Ore
Bars Copper Bar • Iron Bar • Gold Bar • Iridium Bar • Radioactive Bar • Refined Quartz
Category: Resources