Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Bee House
    Place outside and wait for delicious honey! (Except in Winter).
Information
Source Crafting
Season Spring • Summer • Fall
Sell Price Cannot be sold
Crafting
Recipe Source
Farming (Level 3)
Ingredients
Wood (40)
Coal (8)
Iron Bar (1)
Maple Syrup (1)
The Bee House is a type of Artisan Equipment used to make Honey. A Bee House is the reward for completing the Fall Crops Bundle in the Pantry. Four Bee Houses can be obtained as the 19th prize from the Prize Machine (50% chance).
To make honey, place a Bee House on the farm during any season but winter, and wait 4 nights. Bee houses can be placed indoors (e.g., in the Greenhouse) but will not produce honey there, regardless of any flowers within range. Bee houses placed outside the farm will produce wild honey every 4 days, but they will be destroyed if they are placed in a villager's path.
A fully-grown and unharvested flower within 5 tiles of a Bee House (including those grown in Garden Pots) will cause it to produce flower honey, which always sells for more than flowerless Wild Honey. Flowers that are normally foraged (i.e., Crocus and Sweet Pea) do not affect the honey. Additionally, a Dandelion or Daffodil will not affect the honey as these items are classified as forage rather than flowers.
The type of honey is established the moment it is harvested. If a Bee House has produced flower honey, but the flower is harvested before the honey, the honey will become wild honey. Similarly, if a Bee House has produced flowerless wild honey, but the honey is harvested after a flower bloomed in range, the harvested honey will be flower honey.
Contents
1 Products
2 Range
3 Tips
4 References
5 History
Products
Image Name Description Energy/Health Processing Time[1] Availability Base Sell Price
Honey It's a sweet syrup produced by bees. Inedible
4 Nights
All but Winter Wild 100g
 Spring
Tulip
160g
Blue Jazz
200g
 Summer
Sunflower
260g
Summer Spangle
280g
Poppy
380g
 Fall
Sunflower
260g
Fairy Rose
680g
Range
Flower zone indicator for modified Honey.
With the exception of Crocus and Sweet Pea, the Bee House can produce unique types of honey when it is within 5 tiles in any cardinal direction of a blooming flower (for a total area of 60, excluding the tile the Bee House is placed on). When there is more than one type of flower within range, the closest flower takes priority. At equal distances, the flower at the horizontal left takes priority, followed by the next clockwise flower.
Tips
Planting flowers near Bee Houses on Ginger Island will produce flavored Honey year-round.
Garden Pots can be used in parts of the farm and Ginger Island farm where flowers can't be planted.
A Bee House left in place over winter will first produce honey on Spring 5. A Bee House placed on exactly Winter 28 will first produce honey on Spring 4, allowing for one extra harvest.
Filling all inventory slots but 1 will allow collecting honey without collecting any adjacent flowers.
References
↑ See Object::performDropDownAction, Object::DayUpdate, and Object::minutesElapsed in the game code. Bee House parentSheetIndex is 10, as specified in Content\Data\BigCraftablesInformation.xnb.
History
1.4: Added honey from Sunflowers. Fixed lopsided flower range. Bee Houses can now be stacked in a player's inventory and in chests.
1.5: Fixed bug where processing time was affected by the time of day.
1.5.2: Fixed bug where Honey could not be collected from Beehouses on Ginger Island farm in Winter.
1.6: Removing a Bee House with honey ready for harvesting no longer drops the honey as "Wild Honey". Can now be obtained as a prize from the Prize Machine.
1.6.6: Now produces flower honey with flowers in garden pots.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Categories: Craftable itemsBugs fixed in 1.5