Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Blacksmith
Open Hours: 9:00am to 4:00pm
Closed: Friday, after Community Center restored and at 10:30 AM Winter 16
Address: Across the town's river, to the bottom right
Occupants:
Clint
This article is about the store and building. For the profession, see Mining#Mining Skill.
Clint's Blacksmith shop provides multiple services primarily related to resources found in the Mines. It chiefly serves as a location for upgrading tools, and breaking open geodes, although he also trades in Coal and ores (copper, iron, & gold). Finally, the building is also Clint's home, and his bedroom is out the back of the shop floor.
Contents
1 Stock
1.1 Selling
2 Upgrade Tools
3 Process Geodes
4 Tips
5 External Links
6 Gallery
7 History
Stock
The purchase prices of ore and coal increase in Years 2+. The player will receive a letter in the mail on Spring 1 of Year 2 saying "Notice: The price of raw materials at Robin's shop and Clint's shop has increased." The gold obtained by selling items to Clint (or through the shipping bin) does not increase.
Item Name Description Year 1
Price Year 2+
Price
Copper Ore A common ore that can be smelted into bars. 75g 150g
Iron Ore A fairly common ore that can be smelted into bars. 150g 250g
Coal A combustible rock that is useful for crafting and smelting. 150g 250g
Gold Ore A precious ore that can be smelted into bars. 400g 750g
Selling
Similar to how it is possible to sell crops directly to Pierre, it is also possible to sell gems, minerals, ore, and bars directly to Clint. Note that Clint will not directly buy any kind of geodes (although it is possible to sell any ores they contain back to him).
Upgrade Tools
Clint can upgrade the four main tools and the Trash Can in the inventory menu incrementally. That is to say, the previous quality of the tool is required to upgrade it to the next level. It takes 2 days to upgrade a tool. Other Blacksmith services are still available while Clint is upgrading a tool. A notification will pop up on the left side of the screen on the morning a tool upgrade is ready.
Note that even when Blacksmith's shopfront itself is closed on festival days (although the door will not be shut for the Dance of the Moonlight Jellies in the Summer, and the Spirit's Eve festival in the Fall), Clint will still work on tools. If a player drops off a tool the day before a festival, it will be ready the day after the festival as normal. However, if a player drops off a tool 2 days before a festival and the Blacksmith's shop is closed due to the festival, the player will be unable to pick up the tool and must wait an additional day.
All Axe and Pickaxe upgrades reduce the number of hits necessary to remove trees and rocks. In addition, higher level tools can break larger objects of their respective type (logs and stumps for Axes, boulders and meteorites for Pickaxes). Upgraded versions of the Watering Can and Hoe allow the player to water and till multiple squares of land in a single use (using click-and-hold). Upgrading the Watering Can also refills it. The trash can upgrades increase the autosell value of any objects placed into them up to 60%.
Image Name Ingredient Cost
Copper Tool
Copper Bar (5)
2,000g
Steel Tool
Iron Bar (5)
5,000g
Gold Tool
Gold Bar (5)
10,000g
Iridium Tool
Iridium Bar (5)
25,000g
Image Name Ingredient Cost
Copper Trash Can
Copper Bar (5)
1,000g
Steel Trash Can
Iron Bar (5)
2,500g
Gold Trash Can
Gold Bar (5)
5,000g
Iridium Trash Can
Iridium Bar (5)
12,500g
Process Geodes
Clint can break open geodes for 25g. Gems and Minerals can be found within, as well as common resources like Stone, Clay, and Coal.
If the sell price of the item inside the geode is 75g or less, a "clink" sound will be heard when it is broken open. Otherwise a short melody will be heard and the item will sparkle.
Artifact Troves can be purchased from the Desert Trader for 5 Omni Geodes. Clint will break these open like a geode, but instead of minerals, artifacts or treasures can be found inside.
Image Name Description Cost to Process
Geode A blacksmith can break this open for you. 25g
Frozen Geode A blacksmith can break this open for you. 25g
Magma Geode A blacksmith can break this open for you. 25g
Omni Geode A blacksmith can break this open for you. These geodes contain a wide variety of minerals. 25g
Artifact Trove A blacksmith can open this for you. These troves often contain ancient relics and curiosities. 25g
Golden Coconut This is one tough nut to crack, but a professional might be able to break it open. 25g
Mystery Box A blacksmith can open this for you. Who knows what might be inside? 25g
Golden Mystery Box A blacksmith can open this for you. Who knows what might be inside? 25g
Tips
To avoid missing a day of watering, water crops, then upgrade the Watering Can when the weather report indicates rain the next day. Crops will be watered the day the can is taken to the Blacksmith, the following day by the rain, and the Watering Can can be picked up the day after that. It can also be a good idea to upgrade the watering can near the end of a season if there is nothing in the ground that will bear fruit until then.
Regarding coal prices, during year 1, it's cheaper to buy wood from the Carpenter's Shop and use a Charcoal Kiln to make coal than it is to buy coal from the Blacksmith's. Conversely, starting in year 2, the price of wood increases from 10g to 50g, so it is cheaper to purchase coal.
At Mining Skill 7, it is cheaper to purchase Iron Ore, smelt Iron Bars, and use the Transmute (Au) recipe to create Gold Bars than it is to purchase Gold Ore and smelt it into Gold Bars.
Although the door to the Blacksmith locks at 4pm, as long as the player is inside the building they can still interact with the counter after 4pm to make purchases, upgrade tools etc., even after Clint walks away from the counter at 5pm.
External Links
Users with access to their saved game files may find the "Stardew Predictor" utility helpful for predicting which items will be produced from breaking open geodes. The utility is located at: https://mouseypounds.github.io/stardew-predictor/
Gallery
Interior
History
1.04:
Price of Copper Ore increased from 50g to 75g.
Price of Iron Ore increased from 100g to 150g.
Price of Coal increased from 100g to 150g.
Price of Gold Ore increased from 300g to 400g.
1.3.27:
Price of Copper Ore increases in Year 2+ from 75g to 150g.
Price of Iron Ore increases in Year 2+ from 150g to 250g.
Price of Coal increases in Year 2+ from 150g to 250g.
Price of Gold Ore increases in Year 2+ from 400g to 750g.
1.4: Added popup notification when upgraded tools are ready. Added Artifact Troves.
1.5: Added Golden Coconuts.
1.6: Added Mystery Boxes and Golden Mystery Boxes.
A Gold and Copper Node have been added to the right of the door on a shelf, as a decoration.
Added steel, gold, and iridium pans.
1.6.3: Blacksmith services are now available while a tool is being upgraded.
1.6.9: Watering Cans are automatically refilled when upgraded.
Buildings
Merchants Abandoned House • Adventurer's Guild • Blacksmith • Bookseller • Carpenter's Shop • Casino • Desert Trader • Fish Shop • Giant Stump • Harvey's Clinic • Ice Cream Stand • Island Trader • JojaMart • Marnie's Ranch • Oasis • Pierre's General Store • Qi's Walnut Room • The Stardrop Saloon • Traveling Cart • Volcano Dwarf • Wizard's Tower
Houses 1 River Road • 2 River Road • 1 Willow Lane • 2 Willow Lane • 24 Mountain Road • Elliott's Cabin • Farmhouse • Island Farmhouse • Leah's Cottage • Mayor's Manor • Tent • Trailer • Treehouse
Farm Buildings Farming Barn • Cabin • Coop • Fish Pond • Greenhouse • Mill • Pet Bowl • Shed • Silo • Slime Hutch • Stable • Well
Special Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Gold Clock • Island Obelisk • Junimo Hut • Water Obelisk
Other Buildings Community Center • Dog Pen • Island Field Office • Joja Warehouse • Movie Theater • Museum • Spa • Witch's Hut
Categories: Town LocationsStores