Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Bomb
Generates an explosion. Watch out!
Information
Source
Crafting
Dwarf
Volcano Dungeon shop
Bat (2%)
Frost Bat (2%)
Lava Bat (2%)
Lava Crab (40%)
Serpent (15%)
Squid Kid (10%)
Desert Trader
Sell Price 50g
Crafting
Recipe Source Mining Level 6
Ingredients
Iron Ore (4)
Coal (1)
This article is about the specific item. For all types of bomb, see Crafting#Bombs.
The Bomb is a one-time use explosive item. It damages certain items within its radius. Other items are impervious to its effects.
Bombs can be crafted or purchased from the Dwarf (both in the Volcano Dungeon and the Mines) for 1,000g. They are also offered by the Desert Trader, who will trade five Quartz for one Bomb. Bats, Lava Crabs, Squid Kids, and Serpents can drop Bombs when slain. Ten Bombs may occasionally be found in treasure rooms in the Skull Cavern. Crates and barrels in the "dangerous" Mines or Skull Cavern can drop one. 3-5 Bombs may occasionally be found in Supply Crates on the Beach Farm provided the player has upgraded the Farmhouse exactly once. A Bomb may occasionally be obtained from the Traveling Cart for 150–1,000g. Five Bombs may be received from opening a Mystery Box. Twelve or fifteen Bombs can be given as a prize from the prize machine in the Mayor's Manor. Kent may randomly send one in the mail as a gift.
If a player has read the Dwarvish Safety Manual, they will take 25% less damage from a Bomb.
Contents
1 Effects
2 Radius
3 Gifting
4 Bundles
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 History
Effects
Note that the following is not an exhaustive list:
Rocks and ore/gem nodes will drop their respective ores, gems, etc.
Mushrooms, Artifact Spots, and foraged minerals will be destroyed.
Any untilled dirt tiles within a significantly smaller radius will become tilled. In the Mines and Skull Cavern, any items (e.g., clay, artifacts) will be dropped at the same rate as a player using a hoe; elsewhere, nothing will drop (unless the spot in question is the subject of a Secret Note).
Crafted artisan and refining equipment will be destroyed.
Heaters will be destroyed.
Auto-Grabbers will not be destroyed, whether empty or containing items.
Trees will be destroyed when their health reaches zero (five Bombs will knock down a fully grown tree, and three more will destroy the stump). Trees will drop wood, sap, and any seeds they contained.
Radius
The Bomb has a radius of 5 (diameter of 11).
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Bomb is not used in any bundles.
Tailoring
A Bomb can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Bomber Jacket. It can be used as a black dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed.
Quests
Bomb is not used in any quests.
History
1.4: Ore nodes in the Quarry now drop ore instead of stone. Gem Nodes in the Quarry can be destroyed by bombs. A Bomb can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Bombs can now be bought at the shop in the Volcano Dungeon. Can now be found in Supply Crates on the Beach Farm.
1.6: Bomb price from the Dwarf increased from 600g to 1,000g. Added as possible prize from Mystery Boxes and Prize Machine. Reading the Dwarvish Safety Manual will reduce damage to players.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Category: Craftable items