Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Bone Flute
It's a prehistoric wind instrument carved from an animal's bone. It produces an eerie tone.
Information
Artifact Spots:
Cindersap Forest (0.7%)
The Mountain (0.7%)
Pelican Town (0.4%)
Monster Drops: N/A
Other Sources:
Fishing Treasure Chest
Artifact Trove
Donation Reward:
Flute Block
Sell Price: 100g
The Bone Flute is an Artifact that can be found by digging up an Artifact Spot in the Mountains, Cindersap Forest, or Pelican Town, or from Fishing Treasure Chests or Artifact Troves.
Contents
1 Donation
2 Bone Mill
3 Gifting
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 History
Donation
Donation of this item contributes to the total count of donations for the Museum. After donating at least 2 other artifacts, donation of the Bone Flute rewards the player with a Flute Block.
Bone Mill
The Bone Flute can be turned into Quality Fertilizer, Speed-Gro, Deluxe Speed-Gro or Tree Fertilizer in the Bone Mill.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Abigail •  Dwarf •  Penny
Dislike  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Tailoring
The Bone Flute is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Blue Long Vest. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a yellow dye in the dye pots, located at Emily's and Haley's house 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
"Fragments of the past": Gunther may make a request on the Special Orders board for 100 of any combination of bone items that must be gathered while the quest is active. You have 7 days to complete the quest. The reward is 3,500g and the Bone Mill recipe.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.4: Added Artifact Trove as a source. Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Artifacts are now liked by the Dwarf and Penny, disliked by all other NPCs.
1.6: Bone Flute is now liked by Abigail. Can now be used in the Bone Mill.
Artifacts
Artifacts Amphibian Fossil • Anchor • Ancient Doll • Ancient Drum • Ancient Seed • Ancient Sword • Arrowhead • Bone Flute • Chewing Stick • Chicken Statue • Chipped Amphora • Dinosaur Egg • Dried Starfish • Dwarf Gadget • Dwarf Scroll I • Dwarf Scroll II • Dwarf Scroll III • Dwarf Scroll IV • Dwarvish Helm • Elvish Jewelry • Glass Shards • Golden Mask • Golden Relic • Nautilus Fossil • Ornamental Fan • Palm Fossil • Prehistoric Handaxe • Prehistoric Rib • Prehistoric Scapula • Prehistoric Skull • Prehistoric Tibia • Prehistoric Tool • Prehistoric Vertebra • Rare Disc • Rusty Cog • Rusty Spoon • Rusty Spur • Skeletal Hand • Skeletal Tail • Strange Doll (green) • Strange Doll (yellow) • Trilobite
Category: Artifacts