Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Bone Fragment
A small piece of bone.
Information
Source Skeletons • Lava Lurks • Artifact Spots • Bone Nodes • Skull Cavern • Panning
Sell Price 12g
Bone Fragments are special resources that can be dropped by Skeletons and Lava Lurks when slain, by destroying Bone Nodes on Ginger Island, by destroying crates and barrels in Skull Cavern, by Panning, and in Artifact Spots. It can also be gifted by a pet dog with max friendship.
Contents
1 Bone Mill
2 Trade
3 Gifting
4 Bundles
5 Crafting
6 Tailoring
7 Quests
8 History
Bone Mill
Five Bone Fragments can be turned into Quality Fertilizer, Speed-Gro, Deluxe Speed-Gro, or Tree Fertilizer in the Bone Mill.
Trade
The Island Trader on Ginger Island trades, as permanent stock:
1 Taro Tuber for 2 Bone Fragments
The Banana Pudding recipe for 30 Bone Fragments
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Hate  Sam
Bundles
Ten Bone Fragments are one of the options for the remixed Adventurer's Bundle in the Boiler Room.
Crafting
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Skull Brazier Provides a moderate amount of light.
Bone Fragment (10)
Carpenter's Shop (3,000g)
Dark Sign Use an item on this to change what's displayed. The item won't be consumed.
Bone Fragment (5)
Bat Wing (5)
Krobus 3+ through mail
Thorns Ring When enemies damage you, they will take damage themselves.
Bone Fragment (50)
Stone (50)
Gold Bar (1)
Combat Level 7
Bone Mill Turns bone items into fertilizers.
Bone Fragment (10)
Clay (3)
Stone (20)
Gunther (Special Order)
Ostrich Incubator Hatches ostrich eggs into baby ostriches. Place in a barn.
Bone Fragment (50)
Hardwood (50)
Cinder Shard (20)
Completing Professor Snail's collections and surveys
Deluxe Speed-Gro (5) Stimulates leaf production. Guaranteed to increase growth rate by at least 25%. Mix into tilled soil.
Bone Fragment (5)
Oak Resin (1)
Farming Level 8
Hyper Speed-Gro Greatly stimulates leaf production. Guaranteed to increase growth rate by at least 33%. Mix into tilled soil.
Bone Fragment (3)
Radioactive Ore (1)
Solar Essence (1)
Mr. Qi ( 30)
Challenge Bait (5) A "perfect" catch yields triple the fish. However, each time a fish escapes the "fishing bar", the catch is reduced.
Bone Fragment (5)
Moss (2)
Fishing Mastery
Tailoring
Bone Fragment is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Skeleton Shirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a yellow dye in the dye pots, located at Emily's and Haley's house 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
"Fragments of the past": Gunther may make a request on the Special Orders board for 100 Bone Fragments or other bone items that must be gathered while the quest is active. You have 7 days to complete the quest. The reward is 3,500g and the Bone Mill recipe.
History
1.5: Introduced.
1.6: Now used to craft Deluxe Speed-Gro and Challenge Bait. Can now be gifted by a pet dog with max friendship.
Resources
Basic Battery Pack • Bone Fragment • Cinder Shard • Clay • Coal • Fiber • Hardwood • Moss • Stone • Wood
Ore Copper Ore • Iron Ore • Gold Ore • Iridium Ore • Radioactive Ore
Bars Copper Bar • Iron Bar • Gold Bar • Iridium Bar • Radioactive Bar • Refined Quartz
Category: Resources