Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Cabin
A home for a friend! Subsidized by the town agricultural fund.
Information
Build cost 100g
Build materials None
Size 5x3
For cabin placement, see Cabin Locations
For cabin/farmhouse storage, see Keg
The Cabin is a farm building that enables the ability to house one farmhand each in a Multiplayer game.
They behave much like the Farmhouse, but belong to a farmhand rather than the host of the game. Up to 7 cabins can be present. They may be chosen at the start of a new co-op game, in "Nearby" or "Separate" layout, or can also be added to a saved game by visiting the Carpenter's Shop and choosing "Construct farm buildings" from the menu. If chosen at the start of a Multiplayer game, cabins are free. If built on an existing farm, the cost is 100g for each of the 7 varieties of Cabin. Cabins are built instantaneously upon purchase.
A farmhand moves into a cabin by picking up the Parsnip Seeds or Hay left by Mayor Lewis on the floor of the cabin.
Cabins can be demolished by the host at any time, by visiting the Carpenter's Shop (or Wizard's Tower, if the player has unlocked the magic buildings). This will permanently remove the player who occupies the cabin from the game. The player's inventory (other than tools) will appear in a chest in place of the demolished cabin.
A farmhand's inventory can be accessed by the host player in a Multiplayer game by looking in Mayor Lewis' Manor in the Lost and Found box.
Contents
1 Interior
2 Upgrades
3 Varieties
4 History
Interior
The interior of a cabin is identical to that of the main Farmhouse. It is possible for farmhands to sleep in other cabins that are not considered to be their own, although they will be the only ones able to move their own bed.
Upgrades
Much like upgrading the Farmhouse, each farmhand can upgrade their cabin three times at the Carpenter's Shop. The process is identical, taking place through the same dialogue, with each upgrade having the same cost as the equivalent farmhouse upgrade and taking 3 days to complete. Individual cabin upgrades are independent of any other farmhand's housing, and Farmhands can only upgrade their own housing. There is no option to upgrade any other cabin (or the main Farmhouse) on behalf of others.
Varieties
The game automatically chooses the style and location of cabins, if cabins are chosen at the start of a new game. If purchased from the Carpenter's Shop, the player can choose which style to build, and where to place them.
Preset locations of cabins can be found at Cabin Locations.
Cabin Initial Upgrade 1 Upgrade 2
Stone Cabin
Plank Cabin
Log Cabin
Neighbor Cabin
Rustic Cabin
Beach Cabin
Trailer Cabin
History
1.3.27: Introduced.
1.4: Changed Appearances for all upgrade stages - added porch and mailbox to all Cabins. Added cellar upgrade option.
1.5: Farmhand chests replaced with Lewis' lost and found box at the Mayor's Manor.
1.6: Cabins no longer require materials to build. Added 4 more styles of cabins.
1.6.3: The new cabin styles introduced in v1.6 can now be painted once they reach the third upgrade level.
Buildings
Merchants Abandoned House • Adventurer's Guild • Blacksmith • Bookseller • Carpenter's Shop • Casino • Desert Trader • Fish Shop • Giant Stump • Harvey's Clinic • Ice Cream Stand • Island Trader • JojaMart • Marnie's Ranch • Oasis • Pierre's General Store • Qi's Walnut Room • The Stardrop Saloon • Traveling Cart • Volcano Dwarf • Wizard's Tower
Houses 1 River Road • 2 River Road • 1 Willow Lane • 2 Willow Lane • 24 Mountain Road • Elliott's Cabin • Farmhouse • Island Farmhouse • Leah's Cottage • Mayor's Manor • Tent • Trailer • Treehouse
Farm Buildings Farming Barn • Cabin • Coop • Fish Pond • Greenhouse • Mill • Pet Bowl • Shed • Silo • Slime Hutch • Stable • Well
Special Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Gold Clock • Island Obelisk • Junimo Hut • Water Obelisk
Other Buildings Community Center • Dog Pen • Island Field Office • Joja Warehouse • Movie Theater • Museum • Spa • Witch's Hut
Category: Farm buildings