Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Caroline
Information
Birthday  Winter 7
Lives In Pelican Town
Address Pierre's General Store
Family
Pierre (Husband)
Abigail (Daughter)
Marriage No
Clinic Visit  Fall 25
Loved Gifts
Fish Taco
Green Tea
Summer Spangle
Tropical Curry
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Anytime
5.2 Two Hearts
5.3 Three Hearts
5.4 Six Hearts
5.5 Seven Hearts
6 Quotes
7 Quests
8 Portraits
9 Trivia
10 Bugs
11 History
“ “My husband runs the general store here. And have you met my daughter, Abigail? She's the pale one with the purple hair.”
— Caroline
Caroline is a villager who lives in Pelican Town.
Schedule
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Caroline may randomly spend the day there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Caroline will immediately go home to bed. Caroline never visits the Resort on Festival days or her checkup day at Harvey's Clinic.
Shown below is Caroline's schedule, prioritized from the top down. For example, if it is raining, that schedule overrides all schedules below it.
Spring 15 (Bus Service Restored)
Desert Festival (As Vendor)
Fall 25
Winter 16
Green Rain (Year 1)
Rain
Tuesday
Wednesday
Friday
Saturday (Community Center Restored)
Sunday
Regular Schedule
Relationships
Caroline is married to Pierre and they live with their daughter Abigail in Pierre's General Store.
Jodi mentions that Caroline is her best friend, and that she is able to tell her anything. The two also attend aerobics class on Tuesdays along with Marnie, Emily and Robin.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Caroline up to two gifts per week (plus one on her birthday), which will raise or lower her friendship with you. Gifts on her birthday ( 7 Winter) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved, liked, or neutral gifts, Caroline responds
“ “Thanks, sweetie. That's very kind of you to remember my birthday.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Caroline responds
“ “Oh... is that... a birthday gift? I see... well, thanks for stopping by.”
Love
“ “Oh, (Name)... you're spoiling me! I love it!”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Ooohh... this is nice. I'll save it for a quiet day in the sunroom.”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Fish Taco It smells delicious. Cooking
Tuna (1)
Tortilla (1)
Red Cabbage (1)
Mayonnaise (1)
Green Tea A pleasant, energizing beverage made from lightly processed tea leaves. Keg
Tea Leaves (1)
Summer Spangle A tropical bloom that thrives in the humid summer air. Has a sweet, tangy aroma. Farming - Summer
Tropical Curry An exotic, fragrant curry served in a pineapple bowl. Cooking
Coconut (1)
Pineapple (1)
Hot Pepper (1)
Like
“ “For me? This is such a thoughtful gift! Thank you!”
Wild Horseradish
“ “Oh, you've been foraging! Thank you!
I'll make a spicy cocktail sauce with this. That'll put some hair on Pierre's chest.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes (except Amaranth, Duck Mayonnaise, & Mayonnaise)
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Tea Leaves The young leaves of the tea plant. Can be brewed into the popular, energizing beverage. Tea Bush
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Neutral
“ “Oh, that's sweet. Thank you.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals (except Tea Leaves)
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
All Fruit (except pre-1.5 Fruit Tree Fruit & Salmonberry)
All Milk
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Dislike
“ “Oh... I see. I'll, uh... make sure to put it to good use...”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes
Amaranth A purple grain cultivated by an ancient civilization. Farming - Fall
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Duck Mayonnaise It's a rich, yellow mayonnaise. Mayonnaise Machine
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Mayonnaise It looks spreadable. Mayonnaise Machine
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
Hate
“ “Um... I guess I could use it for compost...”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - The Mines
Salmonberry A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest. Foraging - Spring
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
The Brave Little Sapling
Like
It Howls In The Rain
Mysterium
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Dislike
Wumbus
Love
Jasmine Tea
Stardrop Sorbet
Truffle Popcorn
Dislike
Black Licorice
Cotton Candy
Fries
Jawbreaker
Joja Cola
JojaCorn
Nachos
Personal Pizza
Rock Candy
Sour Slimes
Like
Everything else
Heart Events
Anytime
At any friendship level greater than zero friendship points, you may receive a gift in the mail from Caroline. The chance of receiving a gift in the mail increases as your friendship with Caroline increases.
Details 
Two Hearts
Enter the sunroom via the door in Caroline's kitchen between 9am and 5pm on a day when it's not raining.
Details 
Three Hearts
Caroline sends you a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Six Hearts
Enter Pierre's General Store when Caroline and Abigail are there.
Details 
Seven Hearts
Caroline sends you a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Quotes
Regular 
Events 

Quests
"Carving Pumpkins": Caroline will send you a letter on the 19th of Fall requesting a Pumpkin. The reward is 500g and 1 Friendship heart.
Caroline may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
"Island Ingredients": On the Special Orders board in front of the Mayor's Manor, Caroline may randomly request that the player grow and ship 100 Ginger, Pineapple, or Taro Root. The reward is gold equivalent to 50% of the crop's base sell price and the Solar Panel recipe. This special order requires Ginger Island to be unlocked.
Portraits
Trivia
Caroline will send you a recipe for Parsnip Soup, which is ironically one of her husband's hated gifts.
Despite disliking Mayonnaise, Fish Taco is a loved gift.
Caroline will sometimes say "It's a fine-looking day." followed by "On days like these I like to help Evelyn with the public gardens", regardless of the weather.
She is never seen actually helping Evelyn with the gardens, no matter what the weather.
If Caroline's 2-heart event is triggered during the last week of Spring, Summer, or Fall, the player collects one Tea Leaves from the Tea Bush when Caroline harvests it.
Caroline will compliment Jodi in the aerobics meet-up, even if Jodi is gone visiting the Beach Resort on Ginger Island.
Bugs
In Summer, Caroline will sometimes say "On Wednesdays the shop is closed. Keep that in mind if you're going to need anything.", even when the Community Center is complete and Pierre's General Store is open 7 days a week.
History
1.4: Added 2-heart event. Added Green Tea as a loved item and Tea Leaves as liked item. Fixed bug where all recipes would be sent at 3 hearts of friendship.
1.5: Added beach portraits.
1.6: Gift dialogue changed. Added custom gift reactions. Now likes Wild Horseradish. Added winter portraits.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs