Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Carpenter's Shop
Open Hours: 9:00am to 5:00pm
Closed: Tuesday, and at 4:00pm Friday
Address: 24 Mountain Road
Occupants:
Robin
Demetrius
Sebastian
Maru
The Carpenter's Shop is located in the Mountain area north of Pelican Town. Robin is the town carpenter and runs the shop, which is inside her home where she lives with Demetrius, Maru, and Sebastian. The shop is open most days from 9:00am to 5:00pm.
Robin sells wood, stone, and furniture. She can also upgrade the Farmhouse and construct new farm buildings. She will buy building-related Resources,[1] namely Clay, Fiber, Hardwood, Stone, and Wood (all other Resources are purchased by the Blacksmith instead).
She will begin construction the day after buildings are purchased, but she does not work on festival days. Most construction projects are finished in 2 days (by the start of the second day after placing an order). During construction or upgrades, Robin may be unreachable for dialogue or gifting.
Contents
1 Shop Closure
2 Shop Inventory
2.1 Permanent Stock
2.2 Rotating Stock
3 Farm Buildings
4 House Upgrades
5 House Renovations
6 Painting
7 Community Upgrades
7.1 Trailer
7.2 Town Shortcuts
8 Trivia
9 Bugs
10 References
11 Gallery
12 History
Shop Closure
The house is accessible from 9:00am to 8:00pm every day, even when the shop is closed.
The shop is closed on Tuesdays (except when it rains), as Robin goes to Pierre's General Store to exercise with Caroline, Jodi, Emily, and Marnie. However, she walks past the sales counter at 9:40am on her way. It is possible to shop at that time by entering before then and use the counter just as she passes. Similarly, Robin returns home at 8:00pm, and it is possible to shop as she enters her home and passes the sales counter.
The shop closes at 4:00pm on Fridays, when Robin and Demetrius go to the Stardrop Saloon. By entering the house before 4:00pm and missing her during open hours, it is possible to still shop by catching her as she passes the sales counter on the way out, just as on Tuesday mornings.
The shop is always closed on Thursday, Summer 18, when Robin goes to Harvey's Clinic. She leaves the Clinic at 4pm to walk home, and passes the sales counter at approximately 5:50pm. It is possible to shop when she passes the sales counter.
The shop is also closed on all festival days. If she was still working on a job on the farm the day before, then these closures will delay the job completion by one day. However, Robin does work on regular Tuesdays when she already has a job lined up, so there is no delay in that case.
The shop is closed all day any day that she is working on a job on the Farm.
Shop Inventory
In addition to Permanent Stock, which Robin has for sale every day, she has a rotating stock of Furniture that changes daily.
Permanent Stock
Note that the prices of wood and stone increase in Year 2. The player will receive a letter in the mail on Spring 1 of Year 2 saying "The price of raw materials at Robin's shop and Clint's shop has increased." The gold obtained by selling wood or stone to Robin or through the Shipping Bin remains unchanged in Year 2+.
Image Name Description Price
Wood A sturdy, yet flexible plant material with a wide variety of uses. Year 1: 10g
Year 2+: 50g
Stone A common material with many uses in crafting and building. Year 1: 20g
Year 2+: 100g
Basic Window Can be placed inside your house. 300g
Small Window Can be placed inside your house. 300g
Calendar Can be placed inside your house. 2,000g
Workbench When crafting here, you'll have access to materials in any adjacent chests. 2,000g
Wood Chipper Insert a piece of hardwood to break it down into regular wood.
(Available after receiving a letter in winter) 1,000g
Mini-Fridge Allows you to store additional ingredients for cooking.
(Available after first house upgrade) 3,000g
Telephone Can be used to check store hours and inventory. 2,000g
Floor TV Can be placed inside your house. 700g
Budget TV Can be placed inside your house. 750g
Plasma TV Can be placed inside your house.
(Available after first house upgrade) 4,500g
Furniture Catalogue Provides unlimited access to almost every furniture item... from the convenience of your home!
(Available after first house upgrade) 200,000g
Seasonal Plant An ornamental plant that changes with each season. It doesn't need to be watered. 400g
Basic Log A decorative piece for your farm. 250g
Log Section A decorative piece for your farm. 350g
Brick Fireplace Can be placed inside your house. 1,000g
Stone Fireplace Can be placed inside your house. 1,500g
Stove Fireplace Can be placed inside your house. 3,000g
Deluxe Red Double Bed Can be placed inside your house.
(Available after "Robin's Project" Special Order) 6,000g
Bed Can be placed inside your house. 500g
Double Bed Can be placed inside your house.
(Available after first house upgrade) 2,000g
Child Bed Can be placed inside your house.
(Available after second house upgrade) 2,000g
Wooden Brazier Recipe Blueprints for crafting Wooden Brazier 250g
Stone Brazier Recipe Blueprints for crafting Stone Brazier 400g
Barrel Brazier Recipe Blueprints for crafting Barrel Brazier 800g
Stump Brazier Recipe Blueprints for crafting Stump Brazier 800g
Gold Brazier Recipe Blueprints for crafting Gold Brazier 1,000g
Carved Brazier Recipe Blueprints for crafting Carved Brazier 2,000g
Skull Brazier Recipe Blueprints for crafting Skull Brazier 3,000g
Marble Brazier Recipe Blueprints for crafting Marble Brazier 5,000g
Wood Lamp-post Recipe Blueprints for crafting Wood Lamp-post 500g
Iron Lamp-post Recipe Blueprints for crafting Iron Lamp-post 1,000g
Wood Floor Recipe Blueprints for crafting Wood Floor 100g
Stone Floor Recipe Blueprints for crafting Stone Floor 100g
Brick Floor Recipe Blueprints for crafting Brick Floor 500g
Stepping Stone Path Recipe Blueprints for crafting Stepping Stone Path 100g
Straw Floor Recipe Blueprints for crafting Straw Floor 200g
Crystal Path Recipe Blueprints for crafting Crystal Path 200g
Big Chest Recipe Blueprints for crafting Big Chest 5,000g
Rotating Stock
See also: Furniture
On Mondays, each of the items from the following expandable table is added into Robin's daily stock.
Item Price 
On Tuesdays, each of the items from the following expandable table is added into Robin's daily stock.
Item Price 
On Wednesdays, each of the items from the following expandable table is added into Robin's daily stock.
Item Price 
On Thursdays, 2 items are randomly drawn from the following expandable table and added into Robin's daily stock.
Item Price 
On Fridays, 1 item is randomly drawn from each of the following expandable tables and added into Robin's daily stock.
Item Price 
Item Price 
On Saturdays, 1 item is randomly drawn from each of the following expandable tables and added into Robin's daily stock.
Item Price 
Item Price 
On Sundays, 1 item is randomly drawn from each of the following expandable tables and added into Robin's daily stock.
Item Price 
Item Price 
In addition, each day 2 items are randomly drawn from the following expandable table and added into Robin's daily stock.
Item Price 
In addition, each day there is 25% chance that 1 or more items are randomly drawn from the following expandable table and added into Robin's daily stock.
Item Price 
Farm Buildings
For the magical Buildings see Wizard's Tower
Farm buildings have a variety of uses. Some are required to house Animals. Both Coops and Barns can be upgraded to house more/different animals. The player may build as many farm buildings as space allows, including multiple buildings of the same type. The construction time needed for each building is visible in the construction menu.
While attempting to place a building, whether buying or moving it, all placement indicator tiles must be free of obstructions and marked as green; obstructed tiles are red. Obstructions can include rocks, twigs, and weeds, as well as any player placed items such as torches or furniture. The only objects that do not block building placement are tree seeds, crafted flooring and paths, and artifact spots, but the items are destroyed in the process. Farm animals and the cat or dog obstruct building placement, but clicking to place the building on top of them moves them aside.
The buttons in the bottom-right of the Carpenter's Shop construction menu allow the player to paint, move, or demolish existing buildings. Starter farm buildings (including the Greenhouse and default Shipping Bin) can also be moved in the same construction menu at the Carpenter's Shop. Moving a building applies instantly and is free, requiring no construction time, gold, or resources other than the travel time to the Carpenter's Shop. The building's contents move along with the building, all as a unit; a building does not need to be empty in order to be moved.
Tip: Building a Silo before building a Coop or Barn allows Hay to be stockpiled before it's required to feed animals.
Image Name Description Houses Cost Size Construction Time
Barn Houses 4 barn-dwelling animals. Cows 6,000g
Wood (350)
Stone (150)
7x4
3 days
Big Barn Houses 8 barn-dwelling animals. Allows animals to give birth. Unlocks goats. Goats 12,000g
Wood (450)
Stone (200)
7x4
2 days
Deluxe Barn Houses 12 barn-dwelling animals. Comes with an auto-feed system. Unlocks sheep and pigs. Sheep
Pigs
25,000g
Wood (550)
Stone (300)
7x4
2 days
Coop Houses 4 coop-dwelling animals. Chickens 4,000g
Wood (300)
Stone (100)
6x3
3 days
Big Coop Houses 8 coop-dwelling animals. Comes with an incubator. Unlocks ducks. Ducks
Dinosaurs
10,000g
Wood (400)
Stone (150)
6x3
2 days
Deluxe Coop Houses 12 coop-dwelling animals. Comes with an auto-feed system. Unlocks rabbits. Rabbits 20,000g
Wood (500)
Stone (200)
6x3
2 days
Fish Pond Raise fish and harvest their produce. Fish multiply over time. Fish 5,000g
Stone (200)
Seaweed (5)
Green Algae (5)
5x5
2 days
Mill Allows you to mill wheat, beets and rice. 2,500g
Stone (50)
Wood (150)
Cloth (4)
4x2
2 days
Shed An empty building. Fill it with whatever you like! The interior can be decorated. 15,000g
Wood (300)
7x3
2 days
Big Shed Doubles the size of the shed. The interior can be decorated. 20,000g
Wood (550)
Stone (300)
7x3
2 days
Silo Allows you to cut and store grass for feed. 100g
Stone (100)
Clay (10)
Copper Bar (5)
3x3
2 days
Slime Hutch Raise up to 20 slimes. Fill water troughs and slimes will create slime balls. Slimes 10,000g
Stone (500)
Refined Quartz (10)
Iridium Bar (1)
7x4
2 days
Stable Allows you to keep and ride a horse. Horse included. Horse 10,000g
Hardwood (100)
Iron Bar (5)
4x2
2 days
Well Provides a place for you to refill your watering can. 1,000g
Stone (75)
3x3
2 days
Cabin A home for a friend! Subsidized by the town agricultural fund. 1 Farmhand in a Multiplayer game. 100g 5x3
Instant
Shipping Bin Items placed in it will be included in the nightly shipment. 250g
Wood (150)
2x1
Instant
Pet Bowl Provides a dedicated home for one pet. 1 cat, dog, or turtle. 5,000g
Hardwood (25)
2x2
Instant
House Upgrades
When upgrading the Farmhouse, the footprint of the building does not change, so no adjacent tiles are impacted. House upgrades add space inside the house as well as accessibility to the kitchen for cooking.
Farmhouse upgrades require three days to complete.
Image Name Description Cost
House Upgrade 1 Increase house size and adds a Kitchen. 10,000g
Wood (450)
House Upgrade 2 Adds two new rooms, one empty, and one with a crib and two single beds. This allows you to have two children. Both the kitchen and the bedroom are larger. Unlocks renovations and building/trim painting. 65,000g
Hardwood (100)
House Upgrade 3 Adds a cellar under the house, allowing access via the kitchen.
The cellar allows the player to craft and house Casks which can age specific products (i.e., Cheese, Goat Cheese, Beer, Mead, Pale Ale, and Wine) to increase their quality and value.
The exterior appearance of the house remains identical.
100,000g
House Renovations
House renovations allow the player to add or remove certain features from their house. All the renovation options are done instantly and can be reversed. House renovations are unlocked after the second farmhouse upgrade.
Name Image In-game Description Details Cost
Remove Crib Remove the crib from your home. Gets rid of the crib required to have new children. Free
Open Bedroom Removes the wall separating your bedroom and the entrance room. The renovation adds a total of 12 more free spaces to the house. 10,000g
Add Southern Room Adds a room to the south of your bedroom. The room has a footprint of 11×7. 30,000g
Add Corner Room Adds a room in the northeast corner of the house. The room has a footprint of 9×5. 20,000g
Add Dining Room Adds a large room to the left of the kitchen. The room has a footprint of 9×10 + 4×5. 150,000g
Add Cubby Adds a little cubby next to the front door. Just a cubby; has a footprint of 4x5. 10,000g
Add Attic Adds another staircase up, and a room at the top. The room has a footprint of 13×5. 60,000g
Expand Corner Room Extends the corner room, adding a large new area. The room has a footprint of 8×13 + 4×5.
Also increases the regular corner room from 9×5 to 10×5.
100,000g
Open Dining Room Removes the wall between the dining room and kitchen. The renovation adds a total of 12 more free spaces to the house. 10,000g
Painting
The farmhouse, stable, and some farm buildings can be painted at the Carpenter's Shop by selecting "Paint Buildings" under the construction menu. This action applies instantly and is free, requiring no construction time, gold, or resources.
Sheds, barns, coops, and cabins must be fully upgraded to be painted.
The farmhouse can only have its roof painted until the exterior is fully upgraded.
Shown below are the areas where buildings can be painted. Players can paint any combination of the "building" (red area), "trim" (blue/purple area), and/or "roof" (green area).
The usual color, saturation, and shading sliders apply, and colors can be saved and applied to other parts of the building (or other buildings). Clicking the dotted icon will restore the default colors.
Default Farmhouse
Farmhouse - First upgrade
Farmhouse - Second Upgrade
Big Shed
Deluxe Coop
Deluxe Barn
Stable
Log Cabin
Stone Cabin
Plank Cabin
Community Upgrades
Trailer
See also: Trailer
After fully upgrading the Farmhouse and completing the Community Center (or the Joja Warehouse), players are able to purchase a "Community Upgrade" at the Carpenter's Shop for 500,000g and 950 Wood. Robin then builds a new house for Pam (and Penny, if the player is not married to Penny). This takes three days. Note that in a multiplayer game only the host player is able to purchase this upgrade.
Town Shortcuts
After completing the community upgrade, the player may purchase for 300,000g a second upgrade that creates shortcuts to help navigate the valley more quickly. This takes three days.
From Cindersap Forest (next to Leah's cottage) to the Beach, an east/west path along the water passable on horseback. It is possible to take this path to the beach even at times that a festival is being set up in town, the only non-warping way to get there at those times.
From the Mountains (southwest of the quarry bridge) to Town (north of JojaMart), a riverside path too narrow for a horse.
From the Mountains (along the fence east of the Carpenter's Shop) to Town (north of JojaMart and across the river), a riverside path too narrow for a horse.
From the Town (south of the museum) to the Beach (Between the Tide Pool trees), a narrow path hidden in foliage, impassable on horseback.
From the Bus Stop (by the tunnel) to the Backwoods, a flight of steps passable on horseback.
From the island in the Mountains to south of the Adventurer's Guild, a wood plank bridge too narrow for a horse.
(It's possible to use the town-to-beach tide pool shortcut without ever fixing the bridge on the beach)
Below is a list with before and after images of the shortcuts.
Location Before After 
Trivia
The tiles of the kitchen are laid out in a chessboard pattern in white and gray. The southeast corner tile is always white. This means that the 42 kitchen tiles present after the first house upgrade swap colors during/after the second house upgrade.
Bugs
If the player talks to Robin the day before the first community upgrade is complete, she says the player's house will be finished tomorrow, even though she's building the house for Pam and Penny.
References
↑ See code in ShopMenu::setUpStoreForContext, case ScienceHouse. Internally, the game code has two separate categories that are both identified in-game as "Resources". The internal category purchased by Robin is -16 (constant buildingResources); the other Resources category is -15 (constant metalResources), which is purchased by Clint instead.
Gallery
Interior
Sebastian's room
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Added Mill, Shed, and Farmhouse upgrade 3 for purchase. Added ability for Robin to move placed buildings through the construction menu. Introduced a number of new furniture objects to rotating stock.
1.3.27: Added Shipping Bin, Cabins, and "Community Upgrade" to construction menu. Added price increase for wood and stone in Year 2. Added Basic Log, Log Section, Brick Fireplace, Stone Fireplace, and Stove Fireplace to permanent stock.
1.4: Added Fish Pond and Big Shed to construction menu. Added Workbench, Wood Chipper, Mini-Fridge, and Brick Floor (Recipe) to permanent stock. Dressers' prices increased from 1,000g to 5,000g (Mahogany Dresser from 2,000g to 7,500g). Flooring blueprints' prices reduced (Wood Floor, Stone Floor, & Stepping Stone Path from 500g to 100g; Straw Floor & Crystal Path from 1,000g to 200g)
1.5: Added House Renovations and second Community Upgrade. Added Paint Buildings to construction menu. Added Telephone, Bed, Double Bed, Child Bed, and Deluxe Red Double Bed to permanent stock. Added Colorful Set to rotating stock. The Greenhouse can now be moved once restored. The default Shipping Bin next to the farmhouse can now be moved or demolished. Reduced Workbench price from 3,000g to 2,000g.
1.5.5: Buildings can now be placed on artifact spots. They are destroyed in the process.
1.6: Increased price for the second house upgrade from 50,000g to 65,000g, but reduced Hardwood required from 150 to 100. Slime Hutch now has a smaller size of 7x4. Braziers can now be bought in any order. Cabins no longer cost materials, just 100g. Most renovations are no longer free. Added new renovation options. You can now build pet bowls in Robin's shop, with three variants. Construction time is now visible when constructing farm buildings.
Buildings
Merchants Abandoned House • Adventurer's Guild • Blacksmith • Bookseller • Carpenter's Shop • Casino • Desert Trader • Fish Shop • Giant Stump • Harvey's Clinic • Ice Cream Stand • Island Trader • JojaMart • Marnie's Ranch • Oasis • Pierre's General Store • Qi's Walnut Room • The Stardrop Saloon • Traveling Cart • Volcano Dwarf • Wizard's Tower
Houses 1 River Road • 2 River Road • 1 Willow Lane • 2 Willow Lane • 24 Mountain Road • Elliott's Cabin • Farmhouse • Island Farmhouse • Leah's Cottage • Mayor's Manor • Tent • Trailer • Treehouse
Farm Buildings Farming Barn • Cabin • Coop • Fish Pond • Greenhouse • Mill • Pet Bowl • Shed • Silo • Slime Hutch • Stable • Well
Special Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Gold Clock • Island Obelisk • Junimo Hut • Water Obelisk
Other Buildings Community Center • Dog Pen • Island Field Office • Joja Warehouse • Movie Theater • Museum • Spa • Witch's Hut
Categories: Mountain LocationsStores