Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Cave Jelly
A rare jelly found in underground lakes.
Information
Source Fishing Pole • Lava Eel Fish Pond • Bookseller • Turtle
Buff(s)
Luck (+1)
Buff Duration
7m
Season  All
XP
Fishing Pole: 3 Fishing XP
Fish Pond: 17 Fishing XP
Energy / Health
75
33
Sell Price 180g
Cave Jelly is an item that can be caught using a Fishing Pole at floors 20, 60, and 100 of the Mines. Each level of Luck Buff applied significantly increases the chance of catching it. Daily Luck has no effect.
It can also be acquired from a Lava Eel Fish Pond with a population of at least 8. The Bookseller may trade 3 Cave Jelly for 1 Jewels Of The Sea each, provided the player has already earned the power from that book. It can also be gifted by a pet turtle with max friendship.
Cave Jelly is displayed in the Fish section of the collection tab, and counts towards the four fishing Achievements. However, it is otherwise not considered to be a fish, and therefore cannot be sold to Willy at the Fish Shop, does not benefit from fish price bonuses, cannot be used in place of "Any Fish" in recipes, and cannot be put in a Bait Maker, Fish Smoker, or Fish Pond.
Contents
1 Crafting
2 Gifting
3 Tailoring
4 Bundles
5 Quests
6 Strategy
7 References
8 History
Crafting
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Fish Smoker (1) Place fish inside with a piece of coal to create smoked fish, which is worth double. The quality of the fish is preserved.
Hardwood (10)
Sea Jelly (1)
River Jelly (1)
Cave Jelly (1)
Fish Shop for 10,000g
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Tailoring
Cave Jelly is not used in any tailoring. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a red dye at the dye pots located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane. It can also be used as a red dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed.
Bundles
Cave Jelly is not used in any bundles.
Quests
Cave Jelly is not used in any quests.
Strategy
The highest possible rates for Cave Jelly are when fishing on Floor 100 of the Mines. When fishing in this location there are only 3 possible catches: Cave Jelly, Lava Eel, and Trash. Any rod other than the Training Rod may be used, as the Training Rod removes both Cave Jelly and Lava Eel from the pool of possible catches. The chance of catching a Lava Eel can be reduced by fishing closer to the shore, marginally increasing the chance of catching a Cave Jelly.[1]
At this level, ordinarily, 5% of casts that do not catch a Lava Eel will result in a successful Cave Jelly catch. Each level of Luck Buff increases the chance by 5%.[1] So with +5 Luck, 30% of non-Lava Eel catches will be Cave Jelly.
Unlike other locations, fishing on Floor 100 of the Mines does not use a predetermined value to determine whether the farmer successfully catches a Jelly.[1]
References
↑
1.0 1.1 1.2 See MineShaft::getFish in the game code.
History
1.6: Introduced.
Category: Fishing