Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Challenge Bait
A "perfect" catch yields triple the fish. However, each time a fish escapes the "fishing bar", the catch is reduced.
Information
Source Crafting • Golden Fishing Treasure Chests
Energy Inedible
Sell Price 1g
Crafting
Recipe Source Fishing Mastery
Ingredients
Bone Fragment (5)
Moss (2)
Produces 5 Bait per craft
Challenge Bait is used to catch up to 3 fish at once. It reduces the delay before a nibble on a fishing rod by 62.5%, the same as with Wild Bait.[1] It can be crafted after claiming Fishing Mastery. It can also be found in Golden Fishing Treasure Chests (7% chance).[2]
The amount of fish that the player has on the line is displayed right outside of the mini-game display on the top-right. It starts at 3 and decreases by one each time the fish leaves the fishing bar. So 3 fish will be caught at once only if the player catches the fish perfectly. The fish will escape if it leaves the fishing bar 3 times.
Note that catching multiple fish does not grant additional fishing experience points. However, catching multiple fish while working on a fishing or special order quest counts all of them toward the required total.
Challenge Bait can be used to catch up to 3 of the same Legendary Fish.
Challenge Bait cannot be used with the Training Rod or the Bamboo Pole. Only the Fiberglass Rod, the Iridium Rod, and the Advanced Iridium Rod can use bait. Challenge bait can also technically be used in a Crab Pot, but it is no better than standard bait.
Contents
1 Use
2 Gifting
3 Bundles
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 References
7 History
Use
Requires: Fiberglass Rod, Iridium Rod, or Advanced Iridium Rod.
Each cast uses one piece of bait or one magnet. When all bait is used up, the game pops up a notification saying "You've used your last piece of bait."
To attach bait to a fishing rod, open the inventory, click on the bait ( left-click or right-click, depending on how many bait will be used), and then on the rod. To remove bait, on the rod.
On an Xbox controller, press on the bait to select the whole stack (or to pick up a single one), then to attach to the rod.
On a PS4 controller, press on the bait to select the whole stack (or to pick up a single one), then to attach to the rod.
On a Nintendo Switch Controller, Press on the bait to select the whole stack (Or to pick up a single one), then to attach to the rod.
Bait can be detached by pressing on either Controller. ( on Nintendo Switch)
For the mobile version, bait can be added to the fishing rod by opening the inventory, then dragging the bait and dropping it on top of the rod. Bait cannot be removed on mobile.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Challenge Bait is not used in any bundles.
Tailoring
Challenge Bait is not used in any tailoring or dyeing.
Quests
Challenge Bait is not used in any quests.
References
↑ See FishingRod::calculateTimeUntilFishingBite in the game code.
↑ See FishingRod::openTreasureMenuEndFunction in the game code.
History
1.6: Introduced.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Category: Bait