Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Chest
A place to store your items.
Information
Source Crafting
Sell Price Cannot be sold
Crafting
Recipe Source Starter
Ingredients
Wood (50)
See also: Stone Chest, Big Chest, Big Stone Chest.
The Chest is a craftable storage item that holds up to 36 different types of items. You can stack a maximum of 999 identical items into a single slot. Items do not decompose in chests.
Chests can be left in many different places in Stardew Valley. However, if a chest is left on a walking pathway for a villager, it will be pushed out of their way.
An empty chest can be picked up and returned to inventory by hitting it with any tool, or hitting repeatedly with an empty hand. Chests with any items inside cannot be picked up until emptied; however if a filled chest is hit with an Axe, Pickaxe, or Hoe, it will be pushed one tile away from the player. If that tile is not valid for item placement, the chest can jump to the nearest acceptable tile, such as behind the player, to a diagonally adjacent tile, or over other items to a valid one.
Contents
1 Coloring
1.1 Color Picker
1.2 Individual chests
2 Trivia
3 History
Coloring
When opened, chests have a color bar above their inventory window which allows players to select a different color for the chest. This can be changed at anytime without cost. There are 20 colors available to select in the color picker, plus the original brown color.
Color Picker
Individual chests
Trivia
Chests can be acquired without crafting by:
Placing Furniture or crafted items in a spouse's room and then divorcing them. A chest will appear the day after the divorce, containing the items.
Placing crafted items inside the submarine or the mermaid boat during the Night Market. A chest containing the items will appear on the beach when the Night Market ends. (Furniture will not yield a chest and will instead stay inside the structure and can be retrieved during the next Night Market.)
Demolishing a Cabin in Multiplayer. A chest containing the farmhand's inventory will replace the cabin.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Added ability to change color, and chests are no longer able to be placed in the mines.
1.4: When an NPC walks over a chest, it will dump its contents out instead of destroying them. Added menu button "Add to existing stacks". Chests can now be stacked in a player's inventory and in other chests.
1.5: Chests can be moved by repeatedly hitting them with an empty hand. A duplication glitch involving chest organization was fixed.
1.6: Chests can be moved by hitting it with a tool instead. Chests are now pushed out from NPC paths instead of being destroyed.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Category: Craftable items