Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Chicken Statue
It's a statue of a chicken on a bronze base. The ancient people of this area must have been very fond of chickens.
Information
Artifact Spots: The Farm (9%)
Monster Drops: N/A
Other Sources:
Fishing Treasure Chest
Artifact Trove
Donation Reward: Chicken Statue
Sell Price: 50g
This article is about the artifact. For the furniture item, see Chicken Statue (furniture).
The Chicken Statue is an Artifact that can be found by digging up an Artifact Spot on The Farm or from Fishing Treasure Chests or Artifact Troves. It can also be gifted by a pet dog with max friendship.
Contents
1 Donation
2 Gifting
3 Tailoring
4 Quests
5 History
Donation
Donation of this item contributes to the total count of donations for the Museum. After donating at least 4 other artifacts, donation of the Chicken Statue artifact rewards the player with a Chicken Statue furniture item.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Dwarf •  Penny
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Tailoring
The Chicken Statue is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Fluffy Shirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a yellow dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
The Chicken Statue is not used in any quests.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.4: Added Artifact Trove as a source. Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Artifacts are now liked by the Dwarf and Penny, disliked by all other NPCs.
1.6: Can now be gifted by a pet dog with max friendship.
Artifacts
Artifacts Amphibian Fossil • Anchor • Ancient Doll • Ancient Drum • Ancient Seed • Ancient Sword • Arrowhead • Bone Flute • Chewing Stick • Chicken Statue • Chipped Amphora • Dinosaur Egg • Dried Starfish • Dwarf Gadget • Dwarf Scroll I • Dwarf Scroll II • Dwarf Scroll III • Dwarf Scroll IV • Dwarvish Helm • Elvish Jewelry • Glass Shards • Golden Mask • Golden Relic • Nautilus Fossil • Ornamental Fan • Palm Fossil • Prehistoric Handaxe • Prehistoric Rib • Prehistoric Scapula • Prehistoric Skull • Prehistoric Tibia • Prehistoric Tool • Prehistoric Vertebra • Rare Disc • Rusty Cog • Rusty Spoon • Rusty Spur • Skeletal Hand • Skeletal Tail • Strange Doll (green) • Strange Doll (yellow) • Trilobite
Category: Artifacts