Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Chicken
   Well cared-for adult chickens lay eggs every day. Lives in the coop.
Information
Building
Coop
Purchase Price 800g
Produce
Egg
Brown Egg
Large Egg
Large Brown Egg
See also: Golden Chicken, Void Chicken
The Chicken is a farm animal that lives in a Coop. Chickens can be purchased at Marnie's Ranch for 800g or hatched by placing an Egg into an Incubator, taking 9,000m (5d 16h 40m) to incubate, or 4,500m (2d 21h 40m) with the Coopmaster Profession. Additionally, two chickens are present on the farm by default on the Meadowlands Farm Map.
Contents
1 Color
2 Produce
3 Blue Chickens
4 Selling
5 Trivia
6 References
7 History
Color
Chickens are colored White, Brown, or Blue. The Blue variety can be obtained only after seeing Shane's 8-heart event. The color of the chicken is assigned randomly by the game when a chicken is purchased.
While selecting a coop for a Chicken purchased from Marnie's Ranch, a message is shown stating "Choose a Coop for your new White/Brown/Blue Chicken". Cancelling the purchase returns the player to the purchase window, where they can try again for the desired color.
An Incubator will hatch a brown chicken from a Brown Egg and a white chicken from a regular Egg (or the corresponding Large variants). This means blue chickens cannot be obtained using an Incubator.[1]
White and blue chickens produce white eggs, and brown chickens produce brown eggs, so it makes a difference in completing the Community Center Bundles, especially if Remixed Bundles is not chosen at start of game.
Produce
Main article: Animals#Produce
Chickens who eat every day mature after 3 nights have passed. A mature and fed chicken produces a white or brown Egg every day, which can be placed in an Incubator to hatch another chicken, or sold for 50g. Once sufficient friendship and happiness is reached, it has a chance to produce a Large Egg or Large Brown Egg which sells for 95g.
An Egg can be placed in the Mayonnaise Machine to produce Mayonnaise, which sells for 190g or 285g depending on quality.
Image Name Description Sell Price
Egg
Brown Egg A regular white chicken egg.
A regular brown chicken egg.
50g
62g
75g
100g
Large Egg
Large Brown Egg It's an uncommonly large white egg!
It's an uncommonly large brown egg!
95g
118g
142g
190g
Blue Chickens
A blue chick
After seeing Shane's 8-heart event, each chicken you purchase from Marnie has a 25% chance of being blue. Aside from appearance, blue chickens are identical to regular white and brown chickens. One subtle benefit to this alternative color is that blue chickens are much easier to spot in a field of grass.
Blue chickens are hatched as blue chicks.
Selling
It is possible to sell Chickens. The amount of gold obtained for doing so is dependent on how many hearts the animal has. The more hearts; the higher amount of gold fetched for selling it. The amount of gold obtained for selling a maximum-heart Chicken is 1,040g.
To sell a coop or barn animal, right-click the animal after petting. The friendship/mood interface appears. Move the cursor over the gold coin button at the right to see how much you can sell the animal for. Click that button and the confirmation that follows to complete the sale.
Trivia
A blue chicken egg was added to the game Terraria with ConcernedApe's permission in October 2022.
References
↑ See Data/FarmAnimals.xnb in the game files, specifically EggItemIds, which are the valid egg items for each animal type.
History
1.6: Eggs now always give the corresponding color of chicken in the Incubator. Blue chickens can now only be obtained from Marnie's Ranch.
Animals and Produce
Coop Chicken (Egg • Large Egg • Brown Egg • Large Brown Egg) • Dinosaur (Dinosaur Egg) • Duck (Duck Egg • Duck Feather) • Golden Chicken (Golden Egg) • Rabbit (Wool • Rabbit's Foot) • Void Chicken (Void Egg)
Barn Cow (Milk • Large Milk) • Goat (Goat Milk • Large Goat Milk) • Sheep (Wool) • Ostrich (Ostrich Egg) • Pig (Truffle)
Fish Pond Fish (Roe)
Slime Hutch Slimes (Slime • Slime Ball • Slime Egg)
Other Cat • Dog • Horse • Turtle
Category: Coop animals