Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Chipped Amphora
An ancient vessel made of ceramic material. Used to transport both dry and wet goods.
Information
Artifact Spots: Pelican Town (3%)
Monster Drops: N/A
Other Sources:
Artifact Trove
Sell Price: 40g
The Chipped Amphora is an Artifact that can be found digging up an Artifact Spot in Pelican Town. It also has a chance to appear inside Artifact Troves. Vincent sells one in his shop at the Desert Festival for 1 Calico Egg. It can also be gifted by a pet dog with max friendship.
Contents
1 Donation
2 Gifting
3 Bundles
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 History
Donation
Donation of this item contributes to the total count of donations for the Museum.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Dwarf •  Penny
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
The Chipped Amphora is not used in any bundles.
Tailoring
Chipped Amphora is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Antiquity Shirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as an orange dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Chipped Amphora is not used in any quests.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.4: Added Artifact Trove as a source. Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Artifacts are now liked by the Dwarf and Penny, disliked by all other NPCs.
1.6: Can now be purchased at Desert Festival. Can now be gifted by a pet dog with max friendship.
Artifacts
Artifacts Amphibian Fossil • Anchor • Ancient Doll • Ancient Drum • Ancient Seed • Ancient Sword • Arrowhead • Bone Flute • Chewing Stick • Chicken Statue • Chipped Amphora • Dinosaur Egg • Dried Starfish • Dwarf Gadget • Dwarf Scroll I • Dwarf Scroll II • Dwarf Scroll III • Dwarf Scroll IV • Dwarvish Helm • Elvish Jewelry • Glass Shards • Golden Mask • Golden Relic • Nautilus Fossil • Ornamental Fan • Palm Fossil • Prehistoric Handaxe • Prehistoric Rib • Prehistoric Scapula • Prehistoric Skull • Prehistoric Tibia • Prehistoric Tool • Prehistoric Vertebra • Rare Disc • Rusty Cog • Rusty Spoon • Rusty Spur • Skeletal Hand • Skeletal Tail • Strange Doll (green) • Strange Doll (yellow) • Trilobite
Category: Artifacts