Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Clint
Information
Birthday  Winter 26
Lives In Pelican Town
Address Blacksmith
Marriage No
Clinic Visit  Winter 16
Loved Gifts
Amethyst
Aquamarine
Artichoke Dip
Emerald
Fiddlehead Risotto
Gold Bar
Iridium Bar
Jade
Omni Geode
Ruby
Topaz
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Anytime
5.2 Three Hearts I
5.3 Three Hearts II
5.4 Six Hearts
5.5 Seven Hearts
6 Quotes
7 Questions
8 Quests
9 Portraits
10 Trivia
11 History
“ “It's nicer to work outdoors than by a hot furnace all day. I'm only a blacksmith because my father pushed me into it.”
— Clint
Clint is a villager who lives in Pelican Town. He owns and runs the local Blacksmith.
Schedule
Clint is unavailable for shopping, tool upgrades, or geode processing on Fridays after the Community Center is restored, unless it is raining.
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Clint may randomly spend Friday there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Clint will immediately go home to bed.
Shown below are Clint's schedules prioritized highest to lowest. For example, if it is raining, that schedule overrides all others below it.
Spring 16 (Bus Service Restored)
Desert Festival (As Vendor)
Winter 15
Winter 16
Green Rain (Year 1)
Rain
Friday (Community Center Restored)
Regular Schedule
Relationships
Clint often visits the saloon in order to socialize with Emily, who he has a crush on but is nervous to approach. A dialogue with Gus indicates that he suspects Clint's crush but has decided to not ask him about it. A note found in Clint's bedroom confirms his feelings, reading:
“ “Dear Emily,
I know you only think of me as a friend.
It's my fault. I'm too shy. I'll never have the courage to tell you the truth.
That's why I'm writing this letter to myself that I'll certainly crumple up and toss in the corner.”
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Clint up to two gifts per week (plus one on his birthday), which will raise or lower his friendship with you. Gifts on his birthday ( 26 Winter) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved, liked, or neutral gifts, Clint responds
“ “I don't usually get birthday gifts. This actually means a lot, <player>. Thank you.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Clint responds
“ “Is this a birthday gift? It's, uh... an interesting choice. Well I appreciate that you remembered me, anyway.”
Love
“ “Yes! This is exactly what I've been looking for!”
Stardrop Tea
“ “You're giving this... to me? I don't think I deserve it, but... thank you.”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Amethyst A purple variant of quartz. Mining
Aquamarine A shimmery blue-green gem. Mining
Artichoke Dip It's cool and refreshing. Cooking
Artichoke (1)
Milk (1)
Emerald A precious stone with a brilliant green color. Mining
Fiddlehead Risotto A creamy rice dish served with sauteed fern heads. It's a little bland. Cooking
Oil (1)
Fiddlehead Fern (1)
Garlic (1)
Gold Bar A bar of pure gold. Furnace
Gold Ore (5)
Coal (1)
Iridium Bar A bar of pure iridium. Furnace
Iridium Ore (5)
Coal (1)
Jade A pale green ornamental stone. Mining
Omni Geode A blacksmith can break this open for you. These geodes contain a wide variety of minerals. Mining
Ruby A precious stone that is sought after for its rich color and beautiful luster. Mining
Topaz Fairly common but still prized for its beauty. Mining
Like
“ “This is a fun gift. Thanks!”
Mining Monthly
“ “Oh, interesting... These books aren't very easy to come by in the valley.
Looks like there's a lot of good tips in here. Thanks, (Name).”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Likes (except Flowers)
Copper Bar A bar of pure copper. Furnace
Copper Ore (5)
Coal (1)
Iron Bar A bar of pure iron. Furnace
Iron Ore (5)
Coal (1)
Mining Monthly Read this to gain some mining experience. Books
Neutral
“ “Thanks.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals (except Mining Monthly)
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
All Fruit (except Fruit Tree Fruit & Salmonberry)
All Milk
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Coal A combustible rock that is useful for crafting and smelting. Mining
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Gold Ore A precious ore that can be smelted into bars. Mining
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Iridium Ore An exotic ore with many curious properties. Can be smelted into bars. Mining
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Refined Quartz A more pure form of quartz. Furnace
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Dislike
“ “*Sigh*...”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Coal, Copper Bar, Gold Bar, Gold Ore, Iridium Bar, Iridium Ore, Iron Bar, Omni Geode, & Refined Quartz)
All Flowers (except Poppy)
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - The Mines
Salmonberry A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest. Foraging - Spring
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Hate
“ “This makes me depressed.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
N/A
Like
It Howls In The Rain
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Mysterium
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
Wumbus
Dislike
The Zuzu City Express
Love
Fries
Stardrop Sorbet
Dislike
Apple Slices
Black Licorice
Hummus Snack Pack
Jasmine Tea
Joja Cola
JojaCorn
Kale Smoothie
Panzanella Salad
Like
Everything else
Heart Events
Anytime
At any friendship level greater than zero friendship points, you may receive a gift in the mail from Clint. The chance of receiving a gift in the mail increases as your friendship with Clint increases.
Details 
Three Hearts I
Visit the saloon between 7pm and 11pm on a Monday.
Details 
Three Hearts II
Clint sends you a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Six Hearts
Enter town from Cindersap Forest between 9am and 6:30pm. Only happens if you saw his "Three Hearts I" event.
Note: This event will not trigger if you are married to Emily, or have seen or triggered her Eight Heart Event or Ten Heart event.
Details 
Seven Hearts
Clint sends you a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Quotes
Regular 
Events 
Questions
Monday
“ “Yep. I'm a blacksmith. My father was also a blacksmith. My grandfather was a blacksmith as well.
I bet you can't guess what my great-grandfather was...”
A blacksmith. (+30 friendship.)
"How'd you know?"
A silly clown. (+50 friendship.)
"Hahahaha. Good one."
A sarcastic jerk. (-50 friendship.)
"Wow. That was rude. I was just being funny and you took it to a whole new level.
Quests
"Forging Ahead": The morning after you collect your first Copper Ore, Clint will visit and give you the blueprints for crafting a Furnace.
"Clint's Attempt": Clint will send you a letter on the 6th of Winter asking that you give Emily an Amethyst and tell her it's from him. The reward is 1 Friendship heart with Emily.
"A Favor for Clint": Clint will send you a letter on the 17th of Winter asking you to bring him an Iron Bar. The reward is 500g and 1 Friendship heart.
Clint may randomly request ores or coal at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is an amount of gold that varies by requested item/amount.
Note that you do not need to have any ore/coal in inventory to finish the quest. Once the required items are gathered, simply talking to Clint will complete the quest. Handing him any amount of ore or coal will always result in gifting him one of them.
Clint may randomly request that you kill a certain number of Monsters or bring him a random item at the "Help Wanted" board. The reward for killing monsters is an amount of gold that varies by the type and number of monsters requested. The reward for item delivery is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
"Cave Patrol": On the Special Orders board in front of the Mayor's Manor, Clint may randomly request that the player slay 50 Bats, Dust Sprites, Skeletons, or Grubs. The reward is 6,000g and the Geode Crusher recipe.
Portraits
Trivia
According to a tape in a boombox in Clint's room, he is a fan of the blues.
As shown in the picture of him holding a Joja Cola, Clint has only four fingers on his left hand.
Clint's 7 heart recipe is the Bean Hotpot, and Emily has a quote during Winter asking if the player knows how to cook that recipe. This hints that Clint has perhaps introduced her to the dish, or learned it for her.
Developer ConcernedApe has stated that Clint's age is "late 30s-40ish" (source).
Clint's apron can be tailored with 1 Cloth and 1 Fiddlehead Risotto, creating the Blacksmith Apron.
History
1.4: Fixed bug where all recipes would be sent at 3 friendship hearts. Fixed bug where 6 heart event wouldn't trigger if entering town on a horse. Removed ore gathering quest exploits.
1.5: Added beach portraits.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Added winter portraits.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs