Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Coffee
It smells delicious. This is sure to give you a boost.
Information
Source Keg • The Saloon • SquidFest festival • Desert Festival • Mystery Box • Coffee Maker
Buff(s)
Speed (+1)
Buff Duration
1m 23s
Energy / Health
3
1
Sell Price 150g
Crafting
Equipment
Keg
Processing Time
120m (2h)
Ingredients
Coffee Bean (5)
Coffee is a drink made by placing 5 Coffee Beans inside a Keg, or purchased at the Stardrop Saloon for 300g. At the Night Market, one free cup of coffee per night can be obtained from the Desert Trader. Coffee is sold at the Desert Festival in George's and Harvey's shops. One Coffee is a reward for submitting an Egg Rating of 5-9 to Gil during the Desert Festival. If the player owns a Coffee Maker, they can acquire one free cup of coffee every morning. 1-2 Coffee may occasionally be found in Supply Crates on the Beach Farm if the player has not upgraded the Farmhouse yet. 3 Coffee is a guaranteed gold tier reward on the 12th for the SquidFest festival. Wearing a Hot Java Ring gives a 25% chance for monsters to drop Coffee when killed. Three Coffee may be received from opening a Mystery Box.
When consumed, it grants the player +1 Speed for 1m 23s. The speed of the player’s horse is also increased. As a drink, its buff stacks with any food buffs (including Speed), but replaces any other drink buffs (i.e., from Triple Shot Espresso, Ginger Ale or Green Tea).
Unlike all other Keg products, Coffee is not considered to be an Artisan Good. Therefore, its sale price does not benefit from the Artisan profession. Also, Coffee cannot be sold to the General Store; it must be sold using the Shipping Bin.
Note that 5 beans of the same quality (normal, silver, or gold) must be used to make coffee; the keg will not accept beans that are not in one stack of 5.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Recipes
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Harvey
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Willy •  Wizard
Neutral  Leo
Hate  Jas •  Vincent
Bundles
Coffee is not used in any bundles.
Recipes
Image Name Description Ingredients Energy / Health Buff(s) Buff Duration Recipe Source(s) Sell Price
Triple Shot Espresso It's more potent than regular coffee!
Coffee (3)
8
3
Speed (+1)
4m 12s
Stardrop Saloon for 5,000g 450g
Tailoring
Coffee can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Pour-Over Shirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as an orange dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Coffee is not used in any quests.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Added ability to make coffee using Coffee Beans in a Keg.
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring and to make Triple Shot Espresso.
1.5: Can now be found in Supply Crates on the Beach Farm. Can be obtained each day with a Coffee Maker. Can now be obtained from the Hot Java Ring.
1.5.3: Leo is now neutral towards coffee.
1.6: Now a prize for the SquidFest festival. Added as possible prize from Mystery Boxes. Now obtainable from the Desert Festival.
Artisan Goods
Bee House Honey
Cask Beer • Cheese • Goat Cheese • Mead • Pale Ale • Wine
Cheese Press Cheese • Goat Cheese
Keg Beer • Coffee • Green Tea • Juice • Mead • Pale Ale • Wine
Loom Cloth
Mayonnaise Machine Dinosaur Mayonnaise • Duck Mayonnaise • Mayonnaise • Void Mayonnaise
Oil Maker Oil • Truffle Oil
Preserves Jar Aged Roe • Caviar • Jellies and Pickles
Fish Smoker Smoked Fish
Dehydrator Dried Mushrooms • Dried Fruit • Raisins
Misc Maple Syrup • Oak Resin • Pine Tar • Mystic Syrup
Category: Artisan Goods