Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Community Center
Open Hours: Always
Closed: Never
Occupants: Junimos
For Community Center Bundles, see Bundles.
The Pelican Town Community Center is located in Pelican Town, on the screen north of Pierre's General Store. Initially, it appears as a dilapidated building, and is locked to the community.
To open the Community Center, the player must enter Pelican Town from the Bus Stop on a day when it is not raining, from Spring 5th onward, between 8:00 am and 1:00 pm. Entering town from another direction, at another time, or on a rainy day, will not trigger the cutscene. In multiplayer, the host must trigger the cutscene.
During the cutscene, Mayor Lewis unlocks the building and leads the player inside, where strange creatures called Junimos appear and quickly disappear before Lewis can see them. Lewis says he wouldn't be surprised if the place was "full of rats". The cutscene ends with Lewis informing the player that he will leave the Community Center unlocked in the future. Viewing the cut-scene unlocks the "Rat Problem" quest.
To fulfill the "Rat Problem" quest, the player must re-enter the Community Center and interact with a Golden Scroll located in the lower left room. The scroll contains strange writing that can't be deciphered.
The morning after reading the scroll, the player will receive a letter from the Wizard saying he has information about the "rat problem" and that the player should pay him a visit. Reading this letter unlocks the "Meet the Wizard" quest. Visiting the Wizard at his tower in the west of Cindersap Forest will trigger a cutscene during which the Wizard gives the player a potion that grants the Forest Magic power, allowing the player to read the language of the Junimos.
Thereafter, all Golden Scrolls at the Community Center can be read by the player. Each scroll asks for specific offerings in the form of Bundles. Completing all the bundles restores the Community Center.
Alternatively, if the player purchases a JojaMart membership from Morris for 5,000g, the Community Center is permanently replaced with a Joja Warehouse. Instead of completing Bundles, the player will then purchase community upgrades through the Joja Community Development Form.
Contents
1 Restoring the Community Center
2 Willy's Boat
3 Trivia
4 Gallery
5 Bugs
6 History
Restoring the Community Center
After completing all bundles, the Junimos restore the Community Center, and say good-bye before leaving. The next sunny day after completing the last bundle, the player can attend the Community Center reopening ceremony cutscene, triggered by entering Pelican Town at any time. The ceremony is delayed if it is raining or a festival is to be held in town. Completing the ceremony unlocks the "Local Legend" Achievement and awards the player the Stardew Hero Trophy.
Expand
Ceremony Details 


After the ceremony, JojaMart goes out of business. The building becomes abandoned and falls into disrepair. Pierre's General Store is no longer closed on Wednesdays and is open every day of the week. The Blacksmith shop is closed on Fridays, since Clint spends all day at the Community Center. However, the shop can still be entered.
Willy's Boat
Main article: Fish Shop#Willy's Boat
After reaching certain progress on the Community Center Bundles, cutscenes about Willy's boat can be triggered.
Trivia
The Junimo message in the community center translates to "We, the Junimo, are happy to aid you. In return, we ask for gifts of the valley. If you are one with the forest then you will see the true nature of this scroll."
A Junimo carrying a bundle into the hut might say "A gift!" or "Thank you!" in Junimo. When fetching a star, they might say "Junimo!" or "Star!".
When a bundle is completed, a Junimo will be seen carrying the bundle into the hut. When a room is completed, the Junimo will retrieve a star from the hut and place it above the mantle, and will then follow the player around until they leave the Community Center.
After the Fish Tank bundle is completed, the broken fish tank will turn into an actual Fish Tank, containing 1 Catfish, 1 Sunfish, and 1 Snail. Players can then add up to 5 bottom creatures and 5 swimming creatures into the tank and 1 of each decoration type: Coral, Seaweed, Stone, Anchor, Treasure Chest, and Pearl, similarly to other fish tanks like the Deluxe Fish Tank and the Aquatic Sanctuary. The appearance and location of Seaweed, Coral, and other stationary objects in the tank can't be changed because the tank can't be moved by players.
After being fully restored, some villagers spend time enjoying the Community Center.
After being fully restored, the clock on the front of the building will work again and keep pace with the in-game clock.
The completion ceremony cutscene can trigger at any time of day, including after dark. If triggered after dark, it will show the villagers celebrating (including Jas jumping rope) in the dark of night.
Gallery
A Junimo says "Thank you!"
The Community Center restored
Community center completion ceremony
Never looked better
Stardew Hero Trophy
Interior restored
Bugs
If the player completes two or more rooms on the same day, only the overnight cutscene for the last completed room will be played.
If the player completes all bundles in a room the day before getting married, the Junimos' overnight cutscene will be skipped.
In multiplayer, if a host purchases the Joja membership while a farmhand completes the last bundle of the Community Center, the Joja celebration will take place in front of the Community Center instead of the Joja Warehouse.
If the player purchases a JojaMart membership, and then completes all Community Center bundles the same day, the Joja Warehouse completion cutscene will appear in front of a restored Community Center. After that, the Community Center (both inside and outside) will randomly appear as either the restored Center or the Joja Warehouse.
History
1.4: It is no longer possible to purchase a Joja membership after completing the Community Center.
1.4.3: Fixed a bug where multiple rewards could be collected from a bundle.
1.6: The Community Center fish tank now becomes an actual fish tank when completed. The player can now pop the balloons at the completion ceremony.
Buildings
Merchants Abandoned House • Adventurer's Guild • Blacksmith • Bookseller • Carpenter's Shop • Casino • Desert Trader • Fish Shop • Giant Stump • Harvey's Clinic • Ice Cream Stand • Island Trader • JojaMart • Marnie's Ranch • Oasis • Pierre's General Store • Qi's Walnut Room • The Stardrop Saloon • Traveling Cart • Volcano Dwarf • Wizard's Tower
Houses 1 River Road • 2 River Road • 1 Willow Lane • 2 Willow Lane • 24 Mountain Road • Elliott's Cabin • Farmhouse • Island Farmhouse • Leah's Cottage • Mayor's Manor • Tent • Trailer • Treehouse
Farm Buildings Farming Barn • Cabin • Coop • Fish Pond • Greenhouse • Mill • Pet Bowl • Shed • Silo • Slime Hutch • Stable • Well
Special Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Gold Clock • Island Obelisk • Junimo Hut • Water Obelisk
Other Buildings Community Center • Dog Pen • Island Field Office • Joja Warehouse • Movie Theater • Museum • Spa • Witch's Hut
Category: Town Locations