Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Cookie
Very chewy.
Information
Source Cooking
Energy / Health
90
40
Sell Price
140g
Qi Seasoning
162
72
210g
Recipe
Recipe Source(s)
Evelyn (4-heart event)
Ingredients
Wheat Flour (1)
Sugar (1)
Egg (1)
Cookie is a cooked dish. It is prepared using either the kitchen inside an upgraded farmhouse or a Cookout Kit.
The Cookie recipe is normally obtained during Evelyn's 4-heart event. If, however, players experience a bug in which they view Evelyn's event but don't receive the recipe, it will be sold at The Stardrop Saloon for 300g.
Cookies can be received as a gift from Evelyn at the Feast of the Winter Star, and are rarely found in the Garbage Can outside George and Evelyn's home or outside the saloon. Evelyn sells five Cookies in her Desert Festival shop for 20 Calico Eggs each. Cookies may randomly appear in Krobus' shop on Saturdays or in the Stardrop Saloon's rotating stock. One Cookie may be received from opening a Mystery Box. If the player's character is male, after he earns 5,000g he will receive a letter from mom with cookies enclosed.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Tailoring
4 Quests
5 Notes
6 Secret
7 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Wizard
Dislike  Harvey •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Willy
Bundles
Cookie is an option in the Children's Bundle on the Bulletin Board (Remixed).
Tailoring
Cookie is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create a Shirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as an orange dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
One Cookie may be requested by Blobfish in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 5 to 7.
Notes
Chocolate Cake uses the same ingredients as Cookies, but sells for more and is loved by Abigail, Evelyn, and Jodi, and liked by Leah, whereas Cookies are disliked by Leah and only liked by Abigail, Evelyn, and Jodi.
Secret
Details  
History
1.4: Added recipe for sale at Saloon if Evelyn's 4-heart event is seen, but the recipe isn't obtained. Can be used in Tailoring. Harvey now dislikes it as a gift. Can be requested in a Blobfish Fish Pond quest.
1.5: Can now be prepared using a Cookout Kit. Is now used in a remixed bundle.
1.6: Added a secret on the night before the Feast of the Winter Star. Can now be purchased from Evelyn at the Desert Festival.
Recipes
Cooking Algae Soup • Artichoke Dip • Autumn's Bounty • Baked Fish • Banana Pudding • Bean Hotpot • Blackberry Cobbler • Blueberry Tart • Bread • Bruschetta • Carp Surprise • Cheese Cauliflower • Chocolate Cake • Chowder • Coleslaw • Complete Breakfast • Cookie • Crab Cakes • Cranberry Candy • Cranberry Sauce • Crispy Bass • Dish O' The Sea • Eggplant Parmesan • Escargot • Farmer's Lunch • Fiddlehead Risotto • Fish Stew • Fish Taco • Fried Calamari • Fried Eel • Fried Egg • Fried Mushroom • Fruit Salad • Glazed Yams • Ginger Ale • Hashbrowns • Ice Cream • Lobster Bisque • Lucky Lunch • Maki Roll • Mango Sticky Rice • Maple Bar • Miner's Treat • Moss Soup • Omelet • Pale Broth • Pancakes • Parsnip Soup • Pepper Poppers • Pink Cake • Pizza • Plum Pudding • Poi • Poppyseed Muffin • Pumpkin Pie • Pumpkin Soup • Radish Salad • Red Plate • Rhubarb Pie • Rice Pudding • Roasted Hazelnuts • Roots Platter • Salad • Salmon Dinner • Sashimi • Seafoam Pudding • Shrimp Cocktail • Spaghetti • Spicy Eel • Squid Ink Ravioli • Stir Fry • Strange Bun • Stuffing • Super Meal • Survival Burger • Tom Kha Soup • Tortilla • Triple Shot Espresso • Tropical Curry • Trout Soup • Vegetable Medley
Crafting Bug Steak • Field Snack • Life Elixir • Oil of Garlic
Categories: RecipesCooking