Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Copper Bar
A bar of pure copper.
Information
Source Furnace
Shadow Brute (4%)
Shadow Shaman (4%)
Sell Prices
Base Blacksmith (+50%)
60g
90g
Crafting
Equipment
Furnace
Processing Time
30m
Ingredients
Copper Ore (5)
Coal (1)
A Copper Bar is created by smelting 5 Copper Ore in a furnace with 1 coal for fuel. Smelting the copper in a furnace takes 30 in-game minutes. Copper Bar may occasionally be found in Garbage Cans after receiving the Furnace blueprints from Clint. Shadow Brutes and Shadow Shaman may also drop a Copper Bar when slain (4% chance).
Copper bars are used in a variety of crafting recipes and are used to upgrade tools. They can be sold for 60g, or 90g with the Blacksmith Profession.
Contents
1 Tool Upgrades
2 Crafting
3 Buildings
4 Gifting
5 Bundles
6 Tailoring
7 Quests
8 Notes
9 History
Tool Upgrades
Copper Bars are required for the first upgrade of tools.
Image Name Cost Ingredients
Copper Hoe 2,000g
Copper Bar (5)
Copper Pickaxe 2,000g
Copper Bar (5)
Copper Axe 2,000g
Copper Bar (5)
Copper Watering Can 2,000g
Copper Bar (5)
Copper Trash Can 1,000g
Copper Bar (5)
Crafting
Copper Bars are used to make the following items:
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Charcoal Kiln Turns 10 pieces of wood into one piece of coal.
Wood (20)
Copper Bar (2)
Foraging Level 2
Cheese Press Turns milk into cheese.
Copper Bar (1)
Hardwood (10)
Stone (45)
Wood (45)
Farming Level 6
Crab Pot with Trapper Profession Place it in the water, load it with bait, and check the next day to see if you've caught anything. Works in streams, lakes, and the ocean.
Copper Bar (2)
Wood (25)
Fishing Level 3
Keg Place a fruit or vegetable in here. Eventually it will turn into a beverage.
Copper Bar (1)
Iron Bar (1)
Oak Resin (1)
Wood (30)
Farming Level 8
Mayonnaise Machine Turns eggs into mayonnaise.
Copper Bar (1)
Earth Crystal (1)
Stone (15)
Wood (15)
Farming Level 2
Sprinkler Waters the 4 adjacent tiles every morning.
Copper Bar (1)
Iron Bar (1)
Farming Level 2
Sturdy Ring Cuts the duration of negative status effects in half.
Copper Bar (2)
Bug Meat (25)
Slime (25)
Combat Level 1
Tapper Place on a maple, oak, or pine tree and wait for the reservoir to fill with product!
Copper Bar (2)
Wood (40)
Foraging Level 4
Transmute (Fe) A bar of pure iron.
Copper Bar (3)
Mining Level 4
Trap Bobber Causes fish to escape slower when you aren't reeling them in.
Copper Bar (1)
Sap (10)
Fishing Level 6
Big Chest It can store almost twice as much as a regular chest.
Wood (120)
Copper Bar (2)
Carpenter's Shop (5,000g)
Barbed Hook Makes your catch more secure, causing the "fishing bar" to cling to your catch. Works best on slow, weak fish.
Copper Bar (1)
Iron Bar (1)
Gold Bar (1)
Fishing (Level 8)
Quality Bobber Boosts the quality of fish that you catch.
Copper Bar (1)
Sap (20)
Solar Essence (5)
"Juicy Bugs Wanted!" Special Order
Buildings
Image Name Description Cost Size
Silo Allows you to cut and store grass for feed.
Note: Holds up to 240 pieces of Hay 100g
Stone (100)
Clay (10)
Copper Bar (5)
3x3
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Clint •  Maru
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Hate  Sam
Bundles
A Copper Bar is used in the Blacksmith's Bundle in the Boiler Room.
Tailoring
A Copper Bar is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Copper Breastplate. It can be used in dyeing, serving as an orange dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
The Copper Bar may be randomly requested during any season at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store for a reward of 180g and 150 Friendship points. A Copper Bar will never be requested until you have the Furnace blueprints.
4 Copper Bars may be requested by Stonefish in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 7 to 10.
3 Copper Bars may be requested by Catfish in a Fish Pond quest to increases the capacity of the pond from 3 to 5.
Notes
It is more profitable to sell Copper Bars than to transmute them into Iron Bars and sell the Iron Bars. However, it is even more profitable to craft them into Trap Bobbers to sell.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests. Now used to make the Charcoal Kiln.
1.6: Can now be used as ingredient to Big Chest recipe.
Resources
Basic Battery Pack • Bone Fragment • Cinder Shard • Clay • Coal • Fiber • Hardwood • Moss • Stone • Wood
Ore Copper Ore • Iron Ore • Gold Ore • Iridium Ore • Radioactive Ore
Bars Copper Bar • Iron Bar • Gold Bar • Iridium Bar • Radioactive Bar • Refined Quartz
Category: Resources