Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Coral
A colony of tiny creatures that clump together to form beautiful structures.
Information
Source Foraging • Fish Pond • Turtle
Location The Beach • Ginger Island West • Dangerous Mines
Season  All
Energy Inedible
Sell Price
80g
100g
120g
160g
Coral is a forageable item found year-round in the Tide Pool section of the Beach, i.e., to the east of the wooden footbridge[1], the southwest area of Ginger Island West, or in The Mines after activating the Shrine of Challenge or during the Danger In The Deep quest. During Summer 12-14, extra Coral appears anywhere on the beach (including possibly the western section).
The average spawn rate for Coral in the tide pool section of the beach is 0.93/day. An additional 3.2 (on average) Coral per day will spawn during Summer 12-14. These spawn rates are not affected by the presence of other forageable items on the beach; in particular, Coral are not part of the standard six item per map limit on forageable items. 7 Foraging XP are granted for every Coral picked up, and all Foraging bonuses apply to Coral.
Several Crab Pot fish may produce 1 Coral in a Fish Pond when the population of the pond reaches 5. It can also be gifted by a pet turtle with max friendship.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Crafting
4 Buildings
5 Tailoring
6 Fish Pond
7 Quests
8 References
9 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Evelyn
Neutral  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Hate  Harvey
Bundles
Coral is not used in any Bundles.
Crafting
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Warp Totem: Beach Warp directly to the beach. Consumed on use.
Hardwood (1)
Coral (2)
Fiber (10)
Foraging Level 6
Bait Maker Place a fish inside to create targeted bait.
Iron Bar (3)
Coral (3)
Sea Urchin (1)
Fishing Level 6
Buildings
Ten coral are required to purchase the Water Obelisk from the Wizard's Tower.
Image Name Description Cost Size
Water Obelisk Warps you to the beach. 500,000g
Iridium Bar (5)
Clam (10)
Coral (10)
3x2
Tailoring
Coral can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the dyeable Strapped Top. It can be also used as a red dye color at the dye pots in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Fish Pond
Although Coral is not otherwise considered to be fish, it can be placed in a Fish Pond, where it will reproduce every 2 days. The initial pond capacity is 10 Coral; no quests are necessary to increase the pond capacity. Instead of producing Roe, Coral ponds produce Dolomite and Limestone, but only once the population reaches 9.
Produce
Item(s) Produced Fishing XP Granted Population % of Items Overall Daily Chance
Dolomite (1)
130 9-10 6% 5-6%
Limestone (1)
16 9-10 6% 5%
Nothing 1-8 100% 100%
9-10 88% 90-89%
Quests
One to three Coral may be requested by several fish in Fish Pond quests.
Four Coral may be requested by the Raccoon at the Giant Stump as part of his fifth request, or as part of any request starting with the sixth.
References
↑ See Beach::DayUpdate in the game code. The spawn position starts at point (65,11) on the beach map.
History
1.1: Used as a building material to the Water Obelisk.
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests. Can be produced by Fish Ponds. Can be added to Fish Ponds.
1.5: Can now be used as decoration in Fish Tanks.
1.5.2: Now benefits from the Botanist profession. Now considered red for dyes.
1.6: No longer used to craft Deluxe Speed-Gro. Now used to craft Bait Maker. Can now be gifted by a pet turtle with max friendship. Now liked by Evelyn. May now be requested by the Raccoon.
Foraging
Basic Sap
Spring Common Mushroom • Daffodil • Dandelion • Leek • Morel • Salmonberry • Spring Onion • Wild Horseradish
Summer Fiddlehead Fern • Grape • Red Mushroom • Spice Berry • Sweet Pea
Fall Blackberry • Chanterelle • Common Mushroom • Hazelnut • Wild Plum
Winter Crocus • Crystal Fruit • Holly • Snow Yam • Winter Root
The Beach Clam • Cockle • Coral • Mussel • Nautilus Shell • Oyster • Rainbow Shell • Sea Urchin • Seaweed
The Mines Cave Carrot • Purple Mushroom • Red Mushroom
The Desert Cactus Fruit • Coconut
Skull Cavern Dinosaur Egg • Fiddlehead Fern
Ginger Island Ginger • Magma Cap
Category: Beach Forage