Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Daffodil
A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift.
Information
Source Foraging • Spring Seeds • purchase at the Flower Dance
Season  Spring
XP 7 Foraging XP
Energy / Health
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Sell Price
30g
37g
45g
60g
The Daffodil is found via foraging in the Spring, or grown from Spring Seeds. Up to ten can also be purchased from Pierre at the Flower Dance for 50g each. Up to five may be purchased from Evelyn's shop at the Desert Festival for 15 Calico Eggs each. It can randomly be found in Garbage Cans during Spring. The Statue Of Endless Fortune produces one Daffodil per year on Sandy's birthday, Fall 15. Although it is a flower in its description (and in real life), the game classifies it as "Forage" and not "Flower."
Contents
1 Healing
2 Gifting
3 Bundles
4 Recipes
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 History
Healing
The Daffodil is edible, but does not increase Energy or Health.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Sandy
Like  Caroline •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Kent •  Leah •  Linus •  Pam •  Pierre •  Vincent
Neutral  Abigail •  Alex •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Lewis •  Marnie •  Maru •  Penny •  Robin
Dislike  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Krobus •  Leo •  Sam •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Willy •  Wizard
Hate  Jodi
Bundles
Daffodil is used in the Spring Foraging Bundle in the Crafts Room.
Recipes
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source Sell Price
Wild Seeds (Sp) An assortment of wild spring seeds.
(Produces 10 Spring Seeds per craft.)
Wild Horseradish (1)
Daffodil (1)
Leek (1)
Dandelion (1)
Foraging Level 1 35g
Tailoring
Daffodil is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create a Shirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a yellow dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Daffodil may be randomly requested in Spring at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store for a reward of 90g and 150 Friendship points.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.6: Can now be purchased from Evelyn at the Desert Festival.
Foraging
Basic Sap
Spring Common Mushroom • Daffodil • Dandelion • Leek • Morel • Salmonberry • Spring Onion • Wild Horseradish
Summer Fiddlehead Fern • Grape • Red Mushroom • Spice Berry • Sweet Pea
Fall Blackberry • Chanterelle • Common Mushroom • Hazelnut • Wild Plum
Winter Crocus • Crystal Fruit • Holly • Snow Yam • Winter Root
The Beach Clam • Cockle • Coral • Mussel • Nautilus Shell • Oyster • Rainbow Shell • Sea Urchin • Seaweed
The Mines Cave Carrot • Purple Mushroom • Red Mushroom
The Desert Cactus Fruit • Coconut
Skull Cavern Dinosaur Egg • Fiddlehead Fern
Ginger Island Ginger • Magma Cap
Category: Spring Forage