Jump to navigation
Jump to search
The Dance of the Moonlight Jellies is a Festival that takes place at night on the 28th of every Summer at The Beach. The player can choose to attend the festival by entering the area between 10 pm and 12 am. When the festival ends, they will be returned to The Farm at midnight.
On the festival day, the player cannot enter the beach before 10 pm. Using a Warp Totem: Beach or Water Obelisk before 10 pm will result in a popup box saying "Today's festival is being set up. Come back later." In addition, the Warp Totem: Beach will be consumed without transporting the player anywhere.
During the festival, villagers gather at the docks to watch migrating jellyfish attracted to the lights set up. Pierre will set up a stall in the northwest corner of the beach to sell items. Even if the wooden bridge to the east hasn't been repaired this will not affect the festival scene, where it will be temporarily repaired allowing the player to speak to the characters in that area (namely Robin and family, Leah, and the Wizard in the dark northeastern corner).
Talk to Mayor Lewis to begin the special event of the festival, where in a cutscene Mayor Lewis will light a torch to attract more jellyfish. The festival ends automatically after watching the jellyfish cutscene. If the player is married (or engaged), their spouse (or fiancé) will stand next to them during the festival. If the player has any Crab Pots placed in the water on the beach when the Dance occurs, the pots will not be present through the event.
Contents
1 Gallery
2 Shop
3 Mail
4 Trivia
5 History
Gallery
Moonlight Jellies
"Rare" green jelly
"Lunaloos"
Shop
Pierre has a booth from which he sells the following items.
Image Name Description Price
Moonlight Jellies Banner Can be placed inside your house. 800g
Cloud Decal Can be placed inside your house. 1,200g
Cloud Decal Can be placed inside your house. 1,200g
Starport Decal Can be placed inside your house. 1,000g
Modern Rug Can be placed inside your house. 4,000g
Seafoam Pudding (1) This briny pudding will really get you into the maritime mindset! 5,000g
Mail
Trivia
The "rare" green jelly shows up every year.
History
1.4: Fixed bug where NPCs would follow non-festival schedules after the festival.
1.5: Added Pierre's booth.
1.6: Villagers on the pier now have animations depicting them observing the jellies instead of staying static throughout the cutscene. Crab Pots no longer appear during the Dance of the Moonlight Jellies.
Festivals
Spring Egg Festival • Desert Festival • Flower Dance
Summer Luau • Trout Derby • Dance of the Moonlight Jellies
Fall Stardew Valley Fair • Spirit's Eve
Winter Festival of Ice • SquidFest • Night Market • Feast of the Winter Star
Category: Summer festivals