Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Dark Sword
It's glowing with vampire energy.
Information
Type: Sword
Level: 9
Source: Haunted Skull drop
Damage: 30-45
Critical Strike Chance: .04
Stats:
Speed (−5)
Crit. Chance (+2)
Weight (+5)
Vampiric (9%)
Adventurer's Guild
Purchase Price: Not Sold
Sell Price: 450g
The Dark Sword is a sword weapon that can be obtained as a Monster drop from Haunted Skulls in the Quarry Mine or dungeon floors in The Mines. It is the slowest sword in the game, at −5 Speed.
The Dark Sword comes with the vampiric enchantment when obtained from Haunted Skulls. The enchantment can be changed at the Forge.
Notes
Damage dealt by explosions may also trigger healing as long as the Dark Sword is held. This includes the 999 damage inflicted upon downed Mummies by explosions.
It has the slowest speed and highest weight of any sword in the game.
History
1.0: Existed in game code, but was most likely unimplemented (see ConcernedApe comment on reddit)
1.4: Officially introduced in game. Description changed from "It's glowing with a mysterious energy." Crit chance changed from .05 to .04.
1.5: Healing effect changed from 8% to 9%+; sword comes with vampiric enchantment. Level raised from 8 to 9 and sell price raised from 400g to 450g.

Weapons
Swords Bone Sword • Claymore • Cutlass • Dark Sword • Dragontooth Cutlass • Dwarf Sword • Forest Sword • Galaxy Sword • Haley's Iron • Holy Blade • Infinity Blade • Insect Head • Iron Edge • Lava Katana • Leah's Whittler • Meowmere • Neptune's Glaive • Obsidian Edge • Ossified Blade • Pirate's Sword • Rusty Sword • Silver Saber • Steel Falchion • Steel Smallsword • Tempered Broadsword • Templar's Blade • Wooden Blade • Yeti Tooth
Daggers Abby's Planchette • Broken Trident • Burglar's Shank • Carving Knife • Crystal Dagger • Dragontooth Shiv • Dwarf Dagger • Elf Blade • Elliott's Pencil • Galaxy Dagger • Infinity Dagger • Iridium Needle • Iron Dirk • Shadow Dagger • Wicked Kris • Wind Spire
Clubs Alex's Bat • Dragontooth Club • Dwarf Hammer • Femur • Galaxy Hammer • Harvey's Mallet • Infinity Gavel • Kudgel • Lead Rod • Maru's Wrench • Penny's Fryer • Seb's Lost Mace • Sam's Old Guitar • The Slammer • Wood Club • Wood Mallet
Slingshots Slingshot • Master Slingshot • Explosive Ammo
Unobtainable Weapons Galaxy Slingshot • Rapier
Category: Swords