Jump to navigation
Jump to search
See also: Day Cycle
This article lists events/conditions that change based on the day of the week.
Contents
1 Monday
2 Tuesday
3 Wednesday
4 Thursday
5 Friday
6 Saturday
7 Sunday
Monday
Marnie at Marnie's Ranch does not sell or buy anything on Mondays, although the building can still be entered.
If it is raining, Marnie does not leave the Ranch and is open during normal business hours.
Sandy at the Oasis sells 10 Coconuts for 400g each.
Krobus in The Sewers sells a limited quantity (50) Slimes for 10g each.
The Desert Trader sells 3 Hay for 1 Omni Geode.
The Island Trader sells 1 Small Cap for 30 Taro Roots.
The Special Orders Board in Pelican Town and in Qi's Walnut Room refreshes each Monday, with two new quests to choose from.
Lone Weeds spawn on Ginger Island West.
Tuesday
Robin, Jodi, Caroline, Emily and Marnie attend exercise class inside Pierre's General Store. As a result, the Carpenter's Shop and Marnie's Ranch do not buy or sell on Tuesdays, although the buildings can still be entered.
If it is raining, exercise class is canceled and both shops are open for normal business hours.
Sandy at the Oasis sells Cactus Fruit for 150g.
Krobus in The Sewers sells a single Omni Geode for 300g.
The Desert Trader sells 1 Fiber for 5 Stone.
The Island Trader sells 1 Palm Wall Ornament for 1 Pineapple.
Wednesday
Pierre's General Store is closed on Wednesdays, and the building cannot be entered. Once the Community Center is restored or the Player has obtained the Key To The Town, the store stays open all week.
The Television plays a re-run of an episode of The Queen of Sauce (except on Year 1 Spring 3).
Sandy at the Oasis sells 3 Omni Geodes for 1,000g each.
Krobus in The Sewers sells a random Fish or Magnet for 200g.
The Desert Trader sells 1 Cloth for 3 Aquamarines.
The Island Trader sells 1 Bluebird Mask for 30 Taro Roots.
Thursday
Sandy at the Oasis sells Deluxe Speed-Gro for 80g.
Krobus in The Sewers sells a limited quantity (10) of Mixed Seeds for 30g each.
The Desert Trader sells a single Magic Rock Candy for 3 Prismatic Shards.
The Island Trader sells 1 'Volcano' Photo for 5 Mangoes.
Friday
The Traveling Cart is open in Cindersap Forest from 6am to 8pm.
If the Community Center has been restored, villagers can be found hanging out there.
This includes Clint who spends his Fridays there. As a result, he is unavailable for purchasing supplies, upgrading Tools or breaking open geodes at the Blacksmith.
A large number of villagers congregate at the Stardrop Saloon after 6pm.
Sandy at the Oasis sells Honey for 200g.
Krobus in The Sewers sells a single Iridium Sprinkler for 10,000g.
The Desert Trader sells 1 Cheese for 1 Emerald.
The Island Trader sells 1 Deluxe Cowboy Hat for 30 Taro Roots.
Saturday
Willy goes fishing all day unless it is raining, so the Fish Shop is closed, although the building can still be entered.
Sandy at the Oasis sells Quality Retaining Soil for 200g.
Krobus in The Sewers sells five of a random cooked dish.
The Desert Trader sells Wild Seeds for Wild Seeds from a different season.
The Island Trader sells 1 Oceanic Rug for 3 Blue Discus.
Sunday
The gifting limit of 2 gifts per villager per week is reset at the start of the day.
Forageable items that had not been picked up disappear overnight between Saturday and Sunday, and new forageables spawn at triple the normal rate.
The Artifact Spot spawning and removal procedure is run three times (as though 3 days have passed), so artifact spots are more likely to be seen in new positions.
The Television plays an episode of The Queen of Sauce; during years one and two the episode is new and always teaches the player a recipe.
Several villagers attend morning religious services in the chapel inside Pierre's General Store.
The Traveling Cart is open in Cindersap Forest from 6am to 8pm.
Sandy at the Oasis sells Ice Cream for 240g.
Krobus in The Sewers sells ten Bat Wings for 30g each.
The Desert Trader sells 1 Staircase for 1 Jade.
The Island Trader sells 1 Tropical Double Bed for 5 Bananas.
Category: Gameplay