Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Dehydrator
Place 5 pieces of fruit or edible mushrooms inside to dry them.
Information
Source Crafting
Sell Price Cannot be sold
Crafting
Recipe Source Pierre's for 10,000g
Ingredients
Wood (30)
Clay (2)
Fire Quartz (1)
The Dehydrator is a type of Artisan Equipment that is used to create raisins and dried mushrooms and fruit. It can be crafted after purchasing the recipe from Pierre for 10,000g. It is also a possible reward as the 12th prize from the Prize Machine in the Mayor's Manor (50% chance). One is included if the player chooses the mushroom cave.
Products
Dehydrator requires five Mushrooms (except Red Mushroom) or Fruits of the same type and quality.
Image Name Description Ingredients Processing Time Sell Price Energy / Health
Dried Mushrooms A package of gourmet mushrooms. 5 of Any Mushroom (except Red Mushroom) 1 day (ready the next morning) 7.5 × Mushroom Base Price + 25g (1.5 × Base + 5g per Mushroom) 3 × base Mushroom Energy/Health restoration
Dried Fruit Chewy pieces of dried fruit. 5 of Any Fruit (except Grapes) 1 day (ready the next morning) 7.5 × Fruit Base Price + 25g (1.5 × Base + 5g per Fruit) 3 × base Fruits Energy/Health restoration
Raisins It's said to be the Junimos' favorite food. 5 Grapes 1 day (ready the next morning) 600g
125
56
Notes
The quality of the dried product is always normal and not affected by the quality of items used.
Inedible fruits become edible after being turned into Dried Fruit. The formula for Energy is: [Base fruit sell price ÷ 2 × 0.5 × 5], or [Base fruit sell price × 1.25]. This is the same as the calculation for base silver quality sell price, but rounded instead of truncated.
Dried Ancient Fruits give 688 Energy and 309 Health
Dried Coconuts give 125 Energy and 56 Health
Dried Rhubarbs give 275 Energy and 123 Health
The dehydrator effectively makes the Mushrooms or Fruits sell at gold quality price +5 each.
Truffles are not classified as mushrooms and therefore cannot be placed into the Dehydrator.
History
1.6: Introduced.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Category: Craftable items