Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Deluxe Speed-Gro
Stimulates leaf production. Guaranteed to increase growth rate by at least 25%. Mix into tilled soil.
Information
Source Pierre's in Year 2+ • Oasis on Thursdays • Crafting • Bone Mill • Desert Festival
Sell Price 40g
Recipe
Recipe Source(s) Farming Level 8
Ingredients
Oak Resin (1)
Bone Fragment (5)
Produces 5 Deluxe Speed-Gro per craft
Deluxe Speed-Gro is a Fertilizer that speeds crop growth by 25% (or a total of 35% with the Agriculturist Profession).[1] It can be crafted or purchased from Pierre's General Store for 150g from Year 2 onward, or purchased from the Oasis for 80g on Thursdays. Ten Deluxe Speed-Gro may also be received as a gift at the Feast of the Winter Star. Up to 100 Deluxe Speed-Gro may be purchased from Demetrius' shop at the Desert Festival for 2 Calico Eggs each. 10-20 Deluxe Speed-Gro may be received from opening a Mystery Box or Golden Mystery Box.
Deluxe Speed-Gro can be placed on tilled soil before or after planting a seed, or at any stage of crop growth. It does not reduce time between harvests for multi-harvest crops.
Applying Deluxe Speed-Gro days after planting a seed still decreases the time it takes to fully grow, but it reduces a fixed amount of days per stage for each crop regardless of the day it's applied, and the reduction in stages that the crop has already passed will not retroactively apply. Combined with the fact that the reduction disproportionately affects earlier stages more, this means that its reduction to the rest of the growth time is much lower than the advertised percentage of 25%.[2].
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Tailoring
4 Quests
5 References
6 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Deluxe Speed-Gro is not used in any bundles.
Tailoring
Deluxe Speed-Gro can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the dyeable High-Waisted Shirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as an orange dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Deluxe Speed-Gro is not used in any quests.
References
↑ See StardewValley.TerrainFeatures.HoeDirt::applySpeedIncreases in the game code.
↑ The change in phaseDays in HoeDirt::applySpeedIncreases is static regardless of the date of fertilizer application relative to the date of planting. This means that applying fertilizer after planting only affects the current stage and any stages thereafter, in the same way that applying at the same day as planting affects those stages.
History
1.4: Deluxe Speed-Gro now has an effect if used after planting a seed. Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.6: Now requires 5 Bone Fragments instead of 1 Coral to craft. Now sold by Demetrius during the Desert Festival. Added as possible prize from Mystery Boxes and Golden Mystery Boxes.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Category: Fertilizer