Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Deluxe Bait
Causes fish to bite even faster and increases size of the "fishing bar".
Information
Source Fish Shop • Crafting • Fishing Treasure Chests • Deluxe Worm Bin • Bookseller • Trout Derby • SquidFest
Energy Inedible
Sell Price 1g
Crafting
Recipe Source
Fishing (Level 4)
Ingredients
Bait (5)
Moss (2)
Produces 5 Bait per craft
Deluxe Bait is used to reduce the delay before a nibble on a fishing rod by 67%.[1] It also increases the fishing bar size by 12 pixels.[2] Deluxe Bait can be purchased at the Fish Shop after reaching Fishing level 4 for 100g each, crafted, randomly found in Fishing Treasure Chests after reaching Fishing level 6, or grown in a Deluxe Worm Bin.
Thirty Deluxe Bait are the reward for completing the River Fish Bundle in the Fish Tank. The Bookseller trades 30 Deluxe Bait for 1 Bait And Bobber. Twenty Deluxe Bait can be rewarded as a prize during the Trout Derby festival. Twenty Deluxe Bait is the copper tier reward on the 12th for the SquidFest festival.
Deluxe Bait cannot be used with the Training Rod or the Bamboo Pole. Only the Fiberglass Rod, the Iridium Rod, and the Advanced Iridium Rod can use bait.
Deluxe Bait can also be used in a Crab Pot, where it decreases the chance of catching trash (if the player does not have the Mariner profession) compared to using standard bait and increases the quality of Crab Pot fish to silver.[3]
Contents
1 Use
2 Gifting
3 Bundles
4 Quests
5 Tailoring
6 References
7 History
Use
Requires: Fiberglass Rod, Iridium Rod, or Advanced Iridium Rod.
Each cast uses one piece of bait or one magnet. When all bait is used up, the game pops up a notification saying "You've used your last piece of bait."
To attach bait to a fishing rod, open the inventory, click on the bait ( left-click or right-click, depending on how many bait will be used), and then on the rod. To remove bait, on the rod.
On an Xbox controller, press on the bait to select the whole stack (or to pick up a single one), then to attach to the rod.
On a PS4 controller, press on the bait to select the whole stack (or to pick up a single one), then to attach to the rod.
On a Nintendo Switch Controller, Press on the bait to select the whole stack (Or to pick up a single one), then to attach to the rod.
Bait can be detached by pressing on either Controller. ( on Nintendo Switch)
For the mobile version, bait can be added to the fishing rod by opening the inventory, then dragging the bait and dropping it on top of the rod. Bait cannot be removed on mobile.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Deluxe Bait is not used in any bundles.
Quests
Deluxe Bait is not used in any quests.
Tailoring
Deluxe Bait is not used in any tailoring or dyeing.
References
↑ See FishingRod::calculateTimeUntilFishingBite in the game code.
↑ See BobberBar::BobberBar in the game code.
↑ See CrabPot::DayUpdate in the game code.
History
1.6: Introduced.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Category: Bait