Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Demetrius
Information
Birthday  Summer 19
Lives In The Mountain
Address 24 Mountain Road
Family
Robin (Wife)
Maru (Daughter)
Sebastian (Step-son)
Marriage No
Clinic Visit  Summer 25
Loved Gifts
Bean Hotpot
Ice Cream
Rice Pudding
Strawberry
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Events
6 Heart Events
6.1 Anytime
6.2 Three Hearts
6.3 Six Hearts
6.4 Seven Hearts
7 Quotes
8 Quests
9 Portraits
10 Trivia
11 History
“ “I'm studying the local plants and animals from my home laboratory. Have you met my daughter Maru? She's interested to meet you.”
— Demetrius
Demetrius is a villager who resides at 24 Mountain Road, on The Mountain, with his wife Robin, daughter Maru, and step-son Sebastian.
Demetrius is a scientist who studies the valley's local wildlife. He can often be found working in his laboratory or outdoors taking notes.
Schedule
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Demetrius may randomly spend the day there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Demetrius will immediately go home to bed. Demetrius never visits the Resort on Festival days or his checkup day at Harvey's Clinic.
Shown below are Demetrius' schedules prioritized highest to lowest within each season. For example, if it is raining, that schedule overrides all others below it.
 Spring
 Summer
 Fall
 Winter
Relationships
Demetrius is married to Robin and lives with his daughter Maru and step-son Sebastian. Maru is his daughter with Robin, and Sebastian is Robin's son from an earlier relationship. It is assumed that Demetrius is Robin's second husband, because there are 2 books in the bookcase of their room titled "Maximizing Your Second Marriage" and "Practical Tips For First-Time Step-Dads." Demetrius is very protective of Maru, as shown in her two heart event.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Demetrius up to two gifts per week (plus one on his birthday), which will raise or lower his friendship with you. Gifts on his birthday ( 19 Summer) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved, liked, or neutral gifts, Demetrius responds
“ “A present!... with optimal timing. Today is the anniversary of my birth. Thank you!”
For disliked or hated gifts, Demetrius responds
“ “A present!... with optimal timing. Today is the anniversary of my birth.
Let's see what it is...
...Oh.”
Love
“ “You're giving this to me? This is amazing!”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Wow, this is a rare substance. I'll have to take it to the lab for... uh... further analysis.”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Bean Hotpot It sure is healthy. Cooking
Green Bean (2)
Ice Cream It's hard to find someone who doesn't like this. Cooking or Ice Cream Stand
Milk (1)
Sugar (1)
Rice Pudding It's creamy, sweet, and fun to eat. Cooking
Milk (1)
Sugar (1)
Rice (1)
Strawberry A sweet, juicy favorite with an appealing red color. Farming - Spring
Like
“ “Thank you! This is a very interesting specimen.”
Dinosaur Egg
“ “Wow, an intact dinosaur egg! This is an extremely rare specimen. Now, if only it could be incubated...”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
All Fruit (except Strawberry)
Dinosaur Egg A giant dino egg... The entire shell is still intact! Artifacts
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. The Mines
The Cave
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Neutral
“ “That was very thoughtful of you.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals
All Fish (except Carp & Snail)
All Milk
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
Dislike
“ “...What is this?”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Dinosaur Egg & Fish)
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - Mines
Hate
“ “This is disgusting.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
Wumbus
Like
It Howls In The Rain
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Mysterium
The Brave Little Sapling
Dislike
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Love
Popcorn
Stardrop Sorbet
Dislike
Black Licorice
Hummus Snack Pack
Jasmine Tea
Joja Cola
JojaCorn
Kale Smoothie
Panzanella Salad
Like
Everything else
Events
When your total earnings reach 25,000g Demetrius will come by your farm in the morning and tell you about some research he needs help with. He will then volunteer to improve The Cave to either attract Fruit Bats or to produce Mushrooms.
During the Summer, Demetrius will send you a letter informing you about the Dance of the Moonlight Jellies.
Heart Events
Anytime
At any friendship level greater than zero friendship points, you may receive a gift in the mail from Demetrius. The chance of receiving a gift in the mail increases as your friendship with Demetrius increases.
Details 
Three Hearts
Demetrius sends you a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Six Hearts
Enter Demetrius' house while he and Robin are inside.
Details 
Seven Hearts
Demetrius sends you a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Quotes
Regular 
Events 

Quests
"Crop Research": Demetrius will send you a letter on the 20th of Summer requesting that you bring him a Melon. The reward is 550g and 1 Friendship heart.
"Aquatic Research": Demetrius will send you a letter on the 6th of Summer in year 2 requesting that you bring him a Pufferfish. The reward is 1,000g and 1 Friendship heart.
Demetrius may request that you slay a certain number of Monsters or bring him a random item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward for slaying monsters varies by the number/type of monster, but is always an amount of gold. The reward for an item delivery quest is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
"Aquatic Overpopulation": On the Special Orders board in front of the Mayor's Manor, Demetrius may randomly request that the player catch 10 season-specific fish. The reward is gold equivalent to selling the fish and the Farm Computer recipe.
"Biome Balance": On the Special Orders board in front of the Mayor's Manor, Demetrius may randomly request that the player catch 20 River, Ocean, or Lake fish. The reward is 1,500g and the Farm Computer recipe.
Portraits
Trivia
If Robin is constructing something on your farm on the nights she and Demetrius go to the saloon, he'll go and dance by himself.
Demetrius never mentions Sebastian in his dialogue outside of cutscenes.
Despite Demetrius's six-heart event, Tomato is considered a vegetable crop by the game.
If the player has successfully incubated a Dinosaur Egg, speaking with Demetrius will result in him giving the player Triple Shot Espresso.
History
1.4: Fixed bug where all recipes would be sent at 3 friendship hearts.
1.6: Demetrius now likes Dinosaur Egg. Added custom gift reactions. Added winter portraits. Will now give Triple Shot Espresso after incubating a Dinosaur Egg and talking to him.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs