Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Diamond
A rare and valuable gem.
Information
Source Mining • Monster drop • Fishing Treasure Chests • Panning • Trout Derby • Ice Pip or Stonefish Fish Pond • Statue Of Endless Fortune
Sell Price 750g
Gemologist Profession (+30% Sell Price) 974g
The Diamond is a Mineral that can be obtained primarily from Diamond Nodes and Gem Nodes in the Mines, Skull Cavern, Quarry, and Volcano Dungeon. After reading The Diamond Hunter, any rock has a small chance of yielding a Diamond when mined by hand. Diamonds may also be obtained in a number of other ways.
The Lost Book A Study on Diamond Yields contains information about the chances of finding diamond nodes in the mines on a given floor.
A Diamond is arguably the best gem to duplicate in the Crystalarium, providing the largest source of money as a gem. Diamonds are also liked or loved by all giftable NPCs.
If a player has not received 4 candles from Grandpa's Evaluation, then they may be re-evaluated at any time by placing a Diamond into Grandpa's Shrine.
Contents
1 Locations
2 Gifting
3 Bundles
4 Forging
5 Crafting
6 Tailoring
7 Quests
8 Trading
9 History
Locations
Diamond Nodes and Gem Nodes in the Mines, Skull Cavern, Quarry, and Volcano Dungeon. Diamond Nodes are only found on Floors 50+ in the Mines.
Any rock mined with a pickaxe, after obtaining the power from The Diamond Hunter (0.66% chance).
Metal crates in the Volcano Dungeon.
Red, Purple, Copper, or Iron Slime, Dwarvish Sentry, Duggy, Iridium Golem, or Wilderness Golem drop.
Any Monster after reaching the bottom of the Mines (0.05% chance).
Fishing Treasure Chests (regular and golden).
Panning in any area.
Any Garbage Can after reaching the bottom of the Mines.
One Diamond is one of the prizes from the Trout Derby festival.
Five Diamonds can be obtained as the 20th prize from the Prize Machine.
An Ice Pip or Stonefish Fish Pond may produce a Diamond when the population of the pond reaches 9.
The Statue Of Endless Fortune produces seven Diamonds per year on the birthdays of Evelyn, Gus, Jodi, Krobus, Marnie, Maru, and Willy, as well as having a 25% chance to produce one daily on non-birthdays.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Evelyn •  Gus •  Jodi •  Krobus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Penny •  Willy
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  George •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Kent •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Wizard
Bundles
Diamond is one of the options for the Treasure Hunter's Bundle in the Boiler Room (Remixed).
Forging
Diamond can be used at the Forge to give a random upgrade to a melee weapon.
Crafting
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source Sell Price
Ring of Yoba Occasionally shields the wearer from damage.
Iron Bar (5)
Gold Bar (5)
Diamond (1)
Combat Level 7 750g
Geode Crusher Breaks geodes open automatically.
Gold Bar (2)
Stone (50)
Diamond (1)
Clint (Special Order)
Cannot be sold
Fairy Dust Sprinkle on kegs, furnaces, and other refining equipment to instantly receive their product.
Diamond (1)
Fairy Rose (1)
"The Pirate's Wife" quest 300g
Tailoring
Diamond is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with Cloth in the feed to create the dyeable Pendant Shirt. It is a white dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed.
Quests
The Diamond may be randomly requested during any season at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store for a reward of 2,250g and 150 Friendship points. The Diamond will never be requested until the player has reached floor 40 of The Mines.
One or two Diamonds may be requested by several fish in Fish Pond quests.
One Diamond may be requested by the Raccoon at the Giant Stump as part of his fifth request, or as part of any request starting with the sixth.
Trading
One Diamond can be traded to the Desert Trader for 1 Triple Shot Espresso.
Ten Diamonds can be traded to the Volcano Dwarf in the Volcano Dungeon for The Diamond Hunter.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests. Can be produced by Fish Ponds and obtained from Copper and Iron Slimes. Can be traded to the Desert Trader.
1.5: Can now be used in Fairy Dust and Geode Crusher recipes. Can be used in Forging. Is now an option in the Treasure Hunter's Bundle. Can now be obtained from the Volcano Dungeon and Dwarvish Sentries.
1.6: Now one of the prizes from the Trout Derby festival and a prize from the Prize Machine. Can be obtained from Iridium Golems. Can be traded for The Diamond Hunter, which allows any rock to drop Diamonds. May now be requested by the Raccoon.
Minerals
Foraged Minerals Earth Crystal • Fire Quartz • Frozen Tear • Quartz
Gems Amethyst • Aquamarine • Diamond • Emerald • Jade • Prismatic Shard • Ruby • Topaz
Geode Minerals Aerinite • Alamite • Baryte • Basalt • Bixite • Calcite • Celestine • Dolomite • Esperite • Fairy Stone • Fire Opal • Fluorapatite • Geminite • Ghost Crystal • Granite • Helvite • Hematite • Jagoite • Jamborite • Jasper • Kyanite • Lemon Stone • Limestone • Lunarite • Malachite • Marble • Mudstone • Nekoite • Neptunite • Obsidian • Ocean Stone • Opal • Orpiment • Petrified Slime • Pyrite • Sandstone • Slate • Soapstone • Star Shards • Thunder Egg • Tigerseye
Geodes Geode • Frozen Geode • Magma Geode • Omni Geode
Category: Gems