Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Dinosaur Egg
A giant dino egg... The entire shell is still intact!
Information
Source
Dinosaur
Artifact Spot in The Mountains/Quarry (0.6%)
Fishing Treasure Chests (0.7-0.8%)
Pepper Rex drop (10%)
Prehistoric Floors in the Skull Cavern
Crane Game in Movie Theater
Energy Inedible
Sell Prices
Base Treasure Appraisal Guide
350g
437g
525g
700g
1,050g
1,311g
1,575g
2,100g
Artisan Sell Prices
Base Rancher (+20%) Artisan (+40%)
800g
960g
1,120g
The Dinosaur Egg is an artifact and an animal product.
Initially, a Dinosaur Egg can be found by digging up an Artifact Spot in The Mountains (including the Quarry), in Fishing Treasure Chests after reaching Fishing level 2 and having previously found at least one artifact, dropped from a Pepper Rex, foraged on Prehistoric Floors in the Skull Cavern, or won in the Crane Game in the Movie Theater. Dinosaur Egg can also be gifted by a pet dog with max friendship.
Dinosaur Eggs can be put into an incubator in a Big or Deluxe Coop to hatch a Dinosaur ≈11 days later (≈6 days with the Coopmaster Profession). Mature and fed dinosaurs will produce Dinosaur Eggs every 7 days.
Contents
1 Donation
2 Gifting
3 Artisan Goods
4 Bundles
5 Recipes
6 Tailoring
7 Quests
8 Secret
9 References
10 History
Donation
Donation of this item contributes to the total count of donations for the Museum.
Tip: Placing the first Dinosaur Egg found into an incubator instead of donating it to the Museum will ensure that the player both obtains a Dinosaur and completes the Museum collection.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Alex •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Penny
Dislike  Abigail •  Caroline •  Clint •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Artisan Goods
See also: Animal Products Profitability
Dinosaur Eggs can be used to make the following Artisan Good.
Image Name Description Ingredient Equipment Time Sell Price
Dinosaur Mayonnaise It's thick and creamy, with a vivid green hue. It smells like grass and leather.
Dinosaur Egg (1)
Mayonnaise Machine
3 Hours
800g
Bundles
Dinosaur Egg is not used in any bundles.
Recipes
Dinosaur Egg is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
A Dinosaur Egg can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Dinosaur Hat. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a green dye at the dye pots located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane. It can also be used as a green dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed.
Quests
"Gus' Famous Omelet": On the Special Orders board in front of the Mayor's Manor, Gus may randomly request that the player collect and deliver 24 Eggs (of any type) to the fridge in the Stardrop Saloon. The reward is 3,000g and a Mini-Fridge.
Secret
After hatching the first Dinosaur Egg, Demetrius will gift the player a Triple Shot Espresso.[1]
References
↑ See AnimalHouse::adoptAnimal in the game code, and the entry for purchasedAnimal_Dinosaur in Characters/Dialogue/Demetrius.xnb in the data files.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.4: Introduced Dinosaur Mayonnaise -- prior to this, putting Dinosaur Eggs into a Mayonnaise Machine resulted in gold-quality Mayonnaise. Added as drop from Pepper Rex, Crane Game prize, and foraged on Prehistoric Levels. Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Artifacts are now liked by the Dwarf and Penny, disliked by all other NPCs. Can be used for a Special Order.
1.6: Dinosaur Egg is now liked by Demetrius and Alex. Can now be gifted by a pet dog with max friendship. Dinosaur Egg sell values are now modified by the Treasure Appraisal Guide.
Artifacts
Artifacts Amphibian Fossil • Anchor • Ancient Doll • Ancient Drum • Ancient Seed • Ancient Sword • Arrowhead • Bone Flute • Chewing Stick • Chicken Statue • Chipped Amphora • Dinosaur Egg • Dried Starfish • Dwarf Gadget • Dwarf Scroll I • Dwarf Scroll II • Dwarf Scroll III • Dwarf Scroll IV • Dwarvish Helm • Elvish Jewelry • Glass Shards • Golden Mask • Golden Relic • Nautilus Fossil • Ornamental Fan • Palm Fossil • Prehistoric Handaxe • Prehistoric Rib • Prehistoric Scapula • Prehistoric Skull • Prehistoric Tibia • Prehistoric Tool • Prehistoric Vertebra • Rare Disc • Rusty Cog • Rusty Spoon • Rusty Spur • Skeletal Hand • Skeletal Tail • Strange Doll (green) • Strange Doll (yellow) • Trilobite
Animals and Produce
Coop Chicken (Egg • Large Egg • Brown Egg • Large Brown Egg) • Dinosaur (Dinosaur Egg) • Duck (Duck Egg • Duck Feather) • Golden Chicken (Golden Egg) • Rabbit (Wool • Rabbit's Foot) • Void Chicken (Void Egg)
Barn Cow (Milk • Large Milk) • Goat (Goat Milk • Large Goat Milk) • Sheep (Wool) • Ostrich (Ostrich Egg) • Pig (Truffle)
Fish Pond Fish (Roe)
Slime Hutch Slimes (Slime • Slime Ball • Slime Egg)
Other Cat • Dog • Horse • Turtle
Foraging
Basic Sap
Spring Common Mushroom • Daffodil • Dandelion • Leek • Morel • Salmonberry • Spring Onion • Wild Horseradish
Summer Fiddlehead Fern • Grape • Red Mushroom • Spice Berry • Sweet Pea
Fall Blackberry • Chanterelle • Common Mushroom • Hazelnut • Wild Plum
Winter Crocus • Crystal Fruit • Holly • Snow Yam • Winter Root
The Beach Clam • Cockle • Coral • Mussel • Nautilus Shell • Oyster • Rainbow Shell • Sea Urchin • Seaweed
The Mines Cave Carrot • Purple Mushroom • Red Mushroom
The Desert Cactus Fruit • Coconut
Skull Cavern Dinosaur Egg • Fiddlehead Fern
Ginger Island Ginger • Magma Cap
Categories: ArtifactsAnimal Products