Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Dish O' The Sea
This'll keep you warm in the cold sea air.
Information
Source Cooking • Mystery Box • Golden Mystery Box
Buff(s)
Fishing (+3)
Buff Duration
5m 35s
Energy / Health
150
67
Sell Price
220g
Qi Seasoning
270
121
330g
Recipe
Recipe Source(s) Fishing Level 3
Ingredients
Sardine (2)
Hashbrowns (1)
Dish O' The Sea is a cooked dish. It is prepared using either the kitchen inside an upgraded farmhouse or a Cookout Kit. It may also randomly appear in Krobus' shop on Saturdays or the Traveling Cart for 660–1,100g. Five Dish O' The Sea may occasionally be found in a treasure room in the Skull Cavern. One Dish O' The Sea is a guaranteed silver tier reward on the 12th and 13th for the SquidFest festival. Two Dishes O' The Sea may be received from opening a Mystery Box or Golden Mystery Box.
The reward for completing the Specialty Fish Bundle in the Fish Tank, Master Fisher's Bundle in the Fish Tank (Remixed), or Quality Fish Bundle in the Fish Tank (Remixed) is 5 Dish O' The Sea.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Recipes
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Linus
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Leah •  Lewis •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Wizard
Neutral  Willy
Dislike  Krobus •  Leo
Bundles
Dish O' The Sea is not used in any bundles.
Recipes
Dish O' The Sea is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Dish O' The Sea is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Shirt O' The Sea. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a yellow dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Dish O' The Sea is not used in any quests.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Willy is now neutral towards Dish O' The Sea.
1.5: Can now be prepared using a Cookout Kit. Now a reward for the Quality Fish and Master Fisher Bundles.
1.6: Now a prize for the SquidFest festival. Added as possible prize from Mystery Boxes and Golden Mystery Boxes. Quality Fish and Master Fisher Bundles now reward five Dish O' The Sea instead of one.
Recipes
Cooking Algae Soup • Artichoke Dip • Autumn's Bounty • Baked Fish • Banana Pudding • Bean Hotpot • Blackberry Cobbler • Blueberry Tart • Bread • Bruschetta • Carp Surprise • Cheese Cauliflower • Chocolate Cake • Chowder • Coleslaw • Complete Breakfast • Cookie • Crab Cakes • Cranberry Candy • Cranberry Sauce • Crispy Bass • Dish O' The Sea • Eggplant Parmesan • Escargot • Farmer's Lunch • Fiddlehead Risotto • Fish Stew • Fish Taco • Fried Calamari • Fried Eel • Fried Egg • Fried Mushroom • Fruit Salad • Glazed Yams • Ginger Ale • Hashbrowns • Ice Cream • Lobster Bisque • Lucky Lunch • Maki Roll • Mango Sticky Rice • Maple Bar • Miner's Treat • Moss Soup • Omelet • Pale Broth • Pancakes • Parsnip Soup • Pepper Poppers • Pink Cake • Pizza • Plum Pudding • Poi • Poppyseed Muffin • Pumpkin Pie • Pumpkin Soup • Radish Salad • Red Plate • Rhubarb Pie • Rice Pudding • Roasted Hazelnuts • Roots Platter • Salad • Salmon Dinner • Sashimi • Seafoam Pudding • Shrimp Cocktail • Spaghetti • Spicy Eel • Squid Ink Ravioli • Stir Fry • Strange Bun • Stuffing • Super Meal • Survival Burger • Tom Kha Soup • Tortilla • Triple Shot Espresso • Tropical Curry • Trout Soup • Vegetable Medley
Crafting Bug Steak • Field Snack • Life Elixir • Oil of Garlic
Categories: RecipesCooking