Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Dog Pen
Open Hours: Always
Closed: Never
Occupants: Dusty
The Dog Pen is located to the right of the Stardrop Saloon. The dog is Alex's dog.
Appearance
The Dog Pen itself initially takes the appearance of a brown cardboard box with a "This Way Up" arrow on the top pointing east. It is surrounded by a dusty fence with chunks taken out, a bowl of dog food, and a little sign on the front with "DOG" sloppily painted on. After Trash Bear's requests are completed, the dog pen will get a big upgrade. The cardboard box is replaced by a proper wood doghouse with a green tiled roof and a decorative chimney. Along with the bowl of dog food, there is now a brown bowl of water, and an orange tennis ball. There are also stepping stones added to the pen, and the dog sign is removed.
Dog
The dog, Dusty, is normally not visible except for glowing eyes from inside the dog house. Dusty partly appears during heart events with Alex, and more frequently after completing the Trash Bear's requests, when the dog pen gets an upgrade.
The upgraded dog pen.
History
1.4: Added upgraded appearance after fulfilling Trash Bear requests.
Buildings
Merchants Abandoned House • Adventurer's Guild • Blacksmith • Bookseller • Carpenter's Shop • Casino • Desert Trader • Fish Shop • Giant Stump • Harvey's Clinic • Ice Cream Stand • Island Trader • JojaMart • Marnie's Ranch • Oasis • Pierre's General Store • Qi's Walnut Room • The Stardrop Saloon • Traveling Cart • Volcano Dwarf • Wizard's Tower
Houses 1 River Road • 2 River Road • 1 Willow Lane • 2 Willow Lane • 24 Mountain Road • Elliott's Cabin • Farmhouse • Island Farmhouse • Leah's Cottage • Mayor's Manor • Tent • Trailer • Treehouse
Farm Buildings Farming Barn • Cabin • Coop • Fish Pond • Greenhouse • Mill • Pet Bowl • Shed • Silo • Slime Hutch • Stable • Well
Special Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Gold Clock • Island Obelisk • Junimo Hut • Water Obelisk
Other Buildings Community Center • Dog Pen • Island Field Office • Joja Warehouse • Movie Theater • Museum • Spa • Witch's Hut
Category: Town Locations