Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Dragon Tooth
These are rumored to be the teeth of ancient serpents. The enamel is made of pure iridium!
Information
Source Volcano Dungeon • Stingray Fish Pond
Sell Price 500g
The Dragon Tooth is a special item that can be obtained in the Volcano Dungeon within the skeletal remains of a dragon or by killing a Lava Lurk (15% drop chance). They can also be acquired from a Stingray Fish Pond with a population of at least 9.
Five Dragon Teeth can be used to purchase a Banana Sapling from the Island Trader.
Dragon remains with Dragon Teeth
Contents
1 Forging
2 Recipes
3 Crafting
4 Buildings
5 Gifting
6 Tailoring
7 Quests
8 History
Forging
Dragon Teeth can be used at the Forge to add an Innate Enchantment to a weapon.
Recipes
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source(s) Sell Price
Warp Totem: Island Warp directly to Ginger Island. Consumed on use.
Hardwood (5)
Dragon Tooth (1)
Ginger (1)
Volcano Dwarf for 10,000g 20g
Crafting
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Mini-Forge Now, you can use a dwarvish forge from the convenience of your home.
Dragon Tooth (5)
Iron Bar (10)
Gold Bar (10)
Iridium Bar (5)
Combat Mastery
Buildings
Ten dragon teeth are required to purchase the Island Obelisk from the Wizard's Tower.
Image Name Description Cost Size
Island Obelisk Warps you to Ginger Island. 1,000,000g
Iridium Bar (10)
Dragon Tooth (10)
Banana (10)
3x2
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Leo
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Tailoring
Dragon Tooth is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Swashbuckler Hat. It can be used in dyeing, serving as an orange dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
One Dragon Tooth is requested by Stingray in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 5 to 10.
History
1.5: Introduced.
1.6: Used as an ingredient to Mini-Forge recipe.
Category: Special items