Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Duck Feather
It's so colorful.
Information
Source Duck • Cat
Sell Prices
Base Rancher (+20%)
250g
312g
375g
500g
300g
374g
450g
600g
The Duck Feather is an animal product obtained from a Duck with sufficient friendship, mood, and daily luck. It can also occasionally be purchased from the Traveling Cart for 750–1,250g. Additionally, if the player is married to Emily, she will occasionally gift one to the player. The Statue Of Endless Fortune produces one Duck Feather on Leo's birthday, Summer 26. It can also be gifted by a pet cat with max friendship.
Luck buffs do not influence the chances of getting a duck feather.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Recipes
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Elliott •  Leo
Like  Harvey
Neutral  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Dislike  Penny
Bundles
Duck Feather is used in the Dye Bundle on the Bulletin Board.
Recipes
Duck Feather is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Duck Feather is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with Cloth in the feed to create a Lime Green Striped Shirt. It is a green dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed. It can be placed in the green dye pot at Emily's and Haley's house for use in dyeing.
Quests
Duck Feather is not used in any quests.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Increased sell price from 100g to 125g.
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Increased sell price from 125g to 250g.
1.6: Can now be gifted by a pet cat with max friendship.
Animals and Produce
Coop Chicken (Egg • Large Egg • Brown Egg • Large Brown Egg) • Dinosaur (Dinosaur Egg) • Duck (Duck Egg • Duck Feather) • Golden Chicken (Golden Egg) • Rabbit (Wool • Rabbit's Foot) • Void Chicken (Void Egg)
Barn Cow (Milk • Large Milk) • Goat (Goat Milk • Large Goat Milk) • Sheep (Wool) • Ostrich (Ostrich Egg) • Pig (Truffle)
Fish Pond Fish (Roe)
Slime Hutch Slimes (Slime • Slime Ball • Slime Egg)
Other Cat • Dog • Horse • Turtle
Category: Animal Products