Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Dwarf Scroll IV
A yellowed scroll of parchment filled with dwarven script. This one's tied with a golden chain.
Information
Artifact Spots: N/A
Monster Drops: Any Monster other than Skeleton, Serpent, Wilderness Golem, Carbon Ghost, Iridium Bat, Iridium Crab, or Haunted Skull (0.1%)
Other Sources: Tilling in The Mines (floor 80+) (0.2%)[1]
Donation Reward:
Dwarvish Translation Guide
Sell Price: 1g
The Dwarf Scroll IV is an Artifact that can be found as a drop from any monster (other than the Wilderness Golem, Serpent, Skeleton, Carbon Ghost, Iridium Bat, Iridium Crab, and Haunted Skull), or by using the hoe on dirt in The Mines (floor 80+).
Contents
1 Donation
2 Gifting
3 Tailoring
4 Tip
5 References
6 History
Donation
Donation of this item contributes to the total count of donations for the Museum.
Donating all 4 Dwarf Scrolls rewards the player with the Dwarvish Translation Guide.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Dwarf •  Penny
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Tailoring
Dwarf Scroll IV can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the dyeable Gold Trimmed Shirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a yellow dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Tip
Level 95 in the Mines has tillable soil near the entrance to the floor. The player can repeatedly revisit Floor 95 via the elevator to till the soil and farm for Dwarf Scrolls I and IV.
References
↑ See MineShaft::checkForBuriedItem in the game code.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Artifacts are now liked by the Dwarf and Penny, disliked by all other NPCs.
Artifacts
Artifacts Amphibian Fossil • Anchor • Ancient Doll • Ancient Drum • Ancient Seed • Ancient Sword • Arrowhead • Bone Flute • Chewing Stick • Chicken Statue • Chipped Amphora • Dinosaur Egg • Dried Starfish • Dwarf Gadget • Dwarf Scroll I • Dwarf Scroll II • Dwarf Scroll III • Dwarf Scroll IV • Dwarvish Helm • Elvish Jewelry • Glass Shards • Golden Mask • Golden Relic • Nautilus Fossil • Ornamental Fan • Palm Fossil • Prehistoric Handaxe • Prehistoric Rib • Prehistoric Scapula • Prehistoric Skull • Prehistoric Tibia • Prehistoric Tool • Prehistoric Vertebra • Rare Disc • Rusty Cog • Rusty Spoon • Rusty Spur • Skeletal Hand • Skeletal Tail • Strange Doll (green) • Strange Doll (yellow) • Trilobite
Category: Artifacts