Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Dwarvish Translation Guide
Teaches you dwarvish.
Information
Source Museum donation reward
Sell Price Cannot be sold
The Dwarvish Translation Guide is a special item unlocked by donating all 4 Dwarf Scrolls to the Museum.
It unlocks the player's ability to understand the language of the dwarves. This allows the player to communicate with the Dwarf in the Mines, the Dwarf in the Volcano Dungeon, and to read the rightmost gravestone in the Graveyard.
Once obtained, it can be found in the Player's Menu on the Special Items & Powers tab.
Contents
1 Scrolls
2 Trivia
3 Tip
4 External Links
5 History
Scrolls
Image Name Description Price Location
Dwarf Scroll I A yellowed scroll of parchment filled with dwarven script. This one's tied with a red bow. 1g
Tilling in Mines/Skull Cavern (any floor) (0.16%)
Several monsters (0.5% each)
Dwarf Scroll II A yellowed scroll of parchment filled with dwarven script. This one's tied with a green ribbon. 1g
Tilling in Mines (floor 1-39) (0.1%)
Ghost drop (0.5%)
Frost Bat drop (0.5%)
Dust Sprite drop (0.5%)
Blue Slime drop (0.5%)
Dwarf Scroll III A yellowed scroll of parchment filled with dwarven script. This one's tied with a blue rope. 1g
Several monsters drop (1.5% for Blue Slime, 0.5% for others)
Dwarf Scroll IV A yellowed scroll of parchment filled with dwarven script. This one's tied with a golden chain. 1g
Any Monster (other than Serpent, Skeleton, Wilderness Golem, Carbon Ghost, Iridium Bat, Iridium Crab, and Haunted Skull) (0.1%)
Tilling in Mines (floor 80+) (0.2%)
Trivia
In the "rewards" screen shown after donating all 4 scrolls to the Museum, the item type of the Dwarvish Translation Guide reads "Crafting", even though it cannot be crafted.
Tip
Floors 15, 55, 95 in the Mines have tillable soil near the entrance to the floor. The player can repeatedly revisit these floors via the elevator to till the soil and farm for Dwarf Scrolls I and IV.
External Links
Kdau has created a Dwarvish translator website located at https://www.kdau.com/dwarvish/
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.5: Must be acquired to communicate with the Dwarf on Floor 5 in the Volcano Dungeon.
1.6: Now located in the new Special Items & Powers tab instead of the player's wallet.
Category: Special items