Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Dwarf Gadget
It's a piece of the advanced technology once known to the dwarves. It's still glowing and humming, but you're unable to understand how it works.
Information
Artifact Spots: N/A
Monster Drops: N/A
Other Sources:
Magma Geode (3.8%)
Omni Geode (1%)
Tilling in The Mines (floor 40-79) (0.1%)
Artifact Trove (3.7%)
Donation Reward:
'Burnt Offering'
Sell Price: 200g
The Dwarf Gadget is an Artifact that can be found by digging up soil in the Mines (floors 40-79). It can also be found in Magma Geodes, Omni Geodes, and Artifact Troves.
Contents
1 Donation
2 Gifting
3 Bundles
4 Crafting
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 History
Donation
Donation of this item contributes to the total count of donations for the Museum. To earn the 'Burnt Offering' reward, you must donate a Rare Disc, a Dwarf Gadget, and 11+ artifacts.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Maru
Like  Dwarf •  Penny
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
The Dwarf Gadget is not used in any bundles.
Crafting
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Farm Computer Scans the farm and displays useful information.
Dwarf Gadget (1)
Battery Pack (1)
Refined Quartz (10)
Demetrius (Mail)
after completing Special Order quest
Tailoring
The Dwarf Gadget can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Wearable Dwarf Helm.
Quests
The Dwarf Gadget is not used in any quests.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.4: Added Artifact Trove as a source. Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Made an ingredient in the Farm Computer recipe. Artifacts are now liked by the Dwarf and Penny, disliked by all other NPCs.
1.6: Dwarf Gadget is now loved by Maru.
Artifacts
Artifacts Amphibian Fossil • Anchor • Ancient Doll • Ancient Drum • Ancient Seed • Ancient Sword • Arrowhead • Bone Flute • Chewing Stick • Chicken Statue • Chipped Amphora • Dinosaur Egg • Dried Starfish • Dwarf Gadget • Dwarf Scroll I • Dwarf Scroll II • Dwarf Scroll III • Dwarf Scroll IV • Dwarvish Helm • Elvish Jewelry • Glass Shards • Golden Mask • Golden Relic • Nautilus Fossil • Ornamental Fan • Palm Fossil • Prehistoric Handaxe • Prehistoric Rib • Prehistoric Scapula • Prehistoric Skull • Prehistoric Tibia • Prehistoric Tool • Prehistoric Vertebra • Rare Disc • Rusty Cog • Rusty Spoon • Rusty Spur • Skeletal Hand • Skeletal Tail • Strange Doll (green) • Strange Doll (yellow) • Trilobite
Category: Artifacts