Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Dwarf
Information
Birthday  Summer 22
Lives In The Mines
Address Eastern Cave
Marriage No
Loved Gifts
Amethyst
Aquamarine
Emerald
Jade
Lava Eel
Lemon Stone
Omni Geode
Ruby
Topaz
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Shop
3 Relationships
4 Gifts
4.1 Love
4.2 Like
4.3 Neutral
4.4 Dislike
4.5 Hate
5 Movies & Concessions
6 Heart Events
6.1 50 Friendship Points
7 Quotes
8 Gallery
9 Trivia
10 History
“ “Long ago, my people knew the secrets of advanced technology. The archaeological evidence proves that. But I wonder where it came from? And where did it all go? I guess some questions will never be answered...”
— Dwarf
The Dwarf is a valley resident who lives in the Mines. Initially the way is blocked off by an unbreakable rock, just inside the entrance. After upgrading to at least a steel pickaxe, the stone can be broken. A cherry bomb (or stronger bomb) will also break the rock.
The Dwarf will start out speaking Dwarvish, which is unreadable by the player. To understand Dwarvish the 4 Dwarvish scrolls must be acquired from within the mines. After donating them to the museum, Gunther will reward the player with the Dwarvish Translation Guide to use which allows for understanding the Dwarf's speech. Purchases from the Dwarf's shop cannot be made and friendship cannot be affected with the Dwarf until Dwarvish is understood.
Schedule
The Dwarf lives just to the east of the entrance to the mines and does not move from there.
Shop
Image Name Description Price
Dwarvish Safety Manual Bombs deal 25% less damage to you. 4,000g
Big Stone Chest (Recipe) A recipe to make Big Stone Chest 5,000g
Life Elixir Restores health to full. 2,000g
Oil of Garlic Drink this and weaker monsters will avoid you. 3,000g
Cherry Bomb Generates a small explosion. Stand back! 450g
Bomb Generates an explosion. Watch out! 1,000g
Mega Bomb Generates a powerful explosion. Use with extreme caution. 1,600g
Miner's Treat This should keep your energy up. 1,000g
Rarecrow #6 Collect them all! (6 of 8) 2,500g
Stone Cairn A decorative piece for your farm. 200g
Weathered Floor Recipe Blueprints for crafting Weathered Floor 500g
Notes
During year 1, it is cheaper to buy the ingredients for Bomb at the Blacksmith and craft them, provided the player has the sufficient Mining level 6. Buying 4 Iron Ore and 1 Coal costs 750g vs 1,000g to buy it directly from Dwarf. Buying Wood from the Carpenter's Shop and burning it in a Charcoal Kiln saves an extra 50g - if going this route, it is also 50g cheaper to buy the materials for Cherry Bomb.
Relationships
Due to a 1000-year war between the Dwarves and the shadow people, The Dwarf is sometimes suspicious of the player, believing they may be a spy sent by the shadow people.
The Dwarf appears to have some respect for the wizard, as seen in their heart event.
The Dwarf harbors dislike for Krobus, on account of the aforementioned war between their people, the outcome of which caused the Dwarf race to disappear, leaving behind only relics (found as artifacts)
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give the Dwarf up to two gifts per week (plus one on their birthday), which will raise or lower their friendship with you. Note that if you do not understand Dwarvish, friendship will be unaffected by gifts. Gifts on their birthday ( 22 Summer) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved, liked, or neutral gifts, the Dwarf responds
“ “Oh! I've read about this tradition... it's a 'birthday gift', isn't it? Hmm, very interesting...”
For disliked or hated gifts, the Dwarf responds
“ “Oh! I've read about this tradition... it's a 'birthday gift', isn't it?
So, is it part of the tradition to give out garbage like this?”
Love
“ “Hey, I really love this stuff. You can find great things in the mines.”
“ “Lian, U niaan ozi hus sehh. Anoe na hu nnia huns u paa muis.”
Stardrop Tea
“ “*sniff*... is this milk? *sip*... hmm... tastes good.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Loves
Amethyst A purple variant of quartz. Mining
Aquamarine A shimmery blue-green gem. Mining
Emerald A precious stone with a brilliant green color. Mining
Jade A pale green ornamental stone. Mining
Lava Eel It can somehow survive in pools of red-hot lava. Fishing
Lemon Stone Some claim the powdered crystal is a dwarvish delicacy. Mining
Omni Geode A blacksmith can break this open for you. These geodes contain a wide variety of minerals. Mining
Ruby A precious stone that is sought after for its rich color and beautiful luster. Mining
Topaz Fairly common but still prized for its beauty. Mining
Like
“ “Ah, this reminds me of home.”
“ “Ah, hus nimus mi oh homi.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes
All Artifacts
Cave Carrot A starchy snack found in caves. It helps miners work longer. Mining
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - The Mines
Neutral
“ “An offering! Thank you.”
“ “O ahhutel! Vhom olai.”
All Milk
“ “Ah, 'milk'... *slurp*... How interesting. Remind me, again... where exactly does this juice come from?
...!!! *sploosh*”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals
All Fruit (except Fruit Tree fruit & Salmonberry)
All Milk
Solar Essence The glowing face is warm to the touch. Monster Loot
Void Essence It's quivering with dark energy. Monster Loot
Dislike
“ “Hmm... Is this what humans like?”
“ “Lmm... Us hus olha hemas umi?”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Artifacts, Cave Carrot, Lava Eel, Lemon Stone, Omni Geode, Solar Essence, & Void Essence)
All Eggs*
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Salmonberry A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest. Foraging - Spring
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Hate
“ “I don't care what species you are. This is worthless garbage.”
“ “U o' nani olha sinuis anoe ani. Xhus us olonhiss nanpani.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
It Howls In The Rain
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Mysterium
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Wumbus
Like
N/A
Dislike
N/A
Love
Rock Candy
Stardrop Sorbet
Like
Cotton Candy
Ice Cream Sandwich
Jawbreaker
Salmon Burger
Sour Slimes
Star Cookie
Dislike
Everything else
Heart Events
50 Friendship Points
After earning 50 Friendship points with the Dwarf, enter the Sewers. A Stardrop must have been purchased from Krobus.
Details 
Quotes
First Meeting 
Regular 
Gallery
A picture of the Dwarf and surroundings in The Mines.
Trivia
The Dwarf's gender in the game data is "undefined" (see Content\Data\NPCDispositions.xnb).
The large rock leading to the Dwarf can be destroyed with a cherry bomb (or stronger bomb), but that's not mentioned in the message shown when trying to break it with a low-level Pickaxe.
History
1.3.27: Added Stone Cairn to shop stock.
1.4: Fixed the Dwarf unable to give neutral dialogue to gifts. The Dwarf now likes Cave Carrot as a gift.
1.4.4: The Dwarf now loves Lemon Stone.
1.5: The Dwarf now likes all artifacts, not just dwarven items.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Added dialogue. Increased price of all bombs (Cherry Bomb: 300g → 450g; Bomb: 600g → 1,000g; Mega Bomb: 1,000g → 1,600g). The Dwarf now sells Dwarvish Safety Manual and Big Stone Chest recipe. Now loves Lava Eel and is neutral towards all milk. The Dwarf's 50 Friendship Points event can no longer happen on Fridays.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Categories: NPCsStores