Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Dwarvish Helm
It's one of the helmets commonly worn by dwarves. The thick metal plating protects them from falling debris and stalactites.
Information
Artifact Spots: N/A
Monster Drops: N/A
Other Sources:
Geode (3%)
Omni Geode (1%)
Artifact Trove (3.7%)
Tilling in The Mines (floor 1-39) (0.1%)
Sell Price: 100g
The Dwarvish Helm is an Artifact that can be found by tilling soil in The Mines (floor 1-39), or found inside Geodes, Omni Geodes, or Artifact Troves.
Contents
1 Donation
2 Gifting
3 Bundles
4 Recipes
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 History
Donation
Donation of this item contributes to the total count of donations for the Museum.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Dwarf •  Penny
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
The Dwarvish Helm is not used in any bundles.
Recipes
The Dwarvish Helm is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
The Dwarvish Helm can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Wearable Dwarf Helm. It can be used in dyeing, serving as an orange dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
The Dwarvish Helm is not used in any quests.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.4: Added Artifact Trove as a source. Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Artifacts are now liked by the Dwarf and Penny, disliked by all other NPCs.
Artifacts
Artifacts Amphibian Fossil • Anchor • Ancient Doll • Ancient Drum • Ancient Seed • Ancient Sword • Arrowhead • Bone Flute • Chewing Stick • Chicken Statue • Chipped Amphora • Dinosaur Egg • Dried Starfish • Dwarf Gadget • Dwarf Scroll I • Dwarf Scroll II • Dwarf Scroll III • Dwarf Scroll IV • Dwarvish Helm • Elvish Jewelry • Glass Shards • Golden Mask • Golden Relic • Nautilus Fossil • Ornamental Fan • Palm Fossil • Prehistoric Handaxe • Prehistoric Rib • Prehistoric Scapula • Prehistoric Skull • Prehistoric Tibia • Prehistoric Tool • Prehistoric Vertebra • Rare Disc • Rusty Cog • Rusty Spoon • Rusty Spur • Skeletal Hand • Skeletal Tail • Strange Doll (green) • Strange Doll (yellow) • Trilobite
Category: Artifacts