Jump to navigation
Jump to search
The Egg Festival is the first festival of the year, taking place on the 13th of every Spring in Pelican Town Square. Like other festivals, the event lasts for most of the day and consists of two parts: a social portion and an Egg Hunt activity to finish the day. To take part, enter Pelican Town Square between 9am and 2pm. (It is impossible to enter the town before 9am; attempting to enter will say that the event is still being set up.) The festival will end immediately after the Egg Hunt or if the player leaves the Town, returning them to The Farm at 10pm.
Firstly, the villagers will be gathered in the town square and the player can socialize with them. There is also a booth set up where the player can purchase decorative items and Strawberry Seeds. Planting the seeds by the 16th allows Strawberries to be harvested twice before Summer. Talking to Mayor Lewis will proceed to the second portion of the event, which in turn leads to the end of the day; it will not be possible to talk to anyone or buy items afterwards, so finish everything first.
Secondly, the featured attraction of the festival is the Egg Hunt. The player and some other villagers will have 50 seconds to search for small colored eggs hidden around Pelican Town. The amount of eggs required to win is dependent on the number of players currently in the game. In a solo game (or with only 1 player online in a multiplayer game), the player must gather 9 colored eggs, or else Abigail will win. With 2 players, 6 eggs are required to win, 5 eggs with 3 players, or 4 eggs with 4 or more players.[1] If the player wins, they will receive a Straw Hat as a reward. If the player has already won an Egg Hunt in previous years, they will receive a Prize Ticket. In a Multiplayer game, if two or more players find enough eggs to win, then only the player with the highest number of eggs gets the prize. If 2 or more players tie, then all winning players get the prize.
Note that the layout of the festival and the placement of eggs is different on even years, compared to odd years.
Contents
1 Shop
2 Mail
3 Egg Hunt
4 Trivia
5 References
6 History
Shop
As with all festivals, nothing can be sold to Pierre during the festival.
Image Name Description Price
Lawn Flamingo A decorative piece for your farm. 400g
Plush Bunny (1) It's big, it's soft, and it's cute. 2,000g
Strawberry Seeds Plant these in spring. Takes 8 days to mature, and keeps producing strawberries after that. 100g
Seasonal Plant An ornamental plant that changes with each season. It doesn't need to be watered. 350g
Seasonal Plant An ornamental plant that changes with each season. It doesn't need to be watered. 350g
Colorful Set Can be placed inside your house. 500g
Pastel Banner Can be placed inside your house. 1,000g
Decorative Pitchfork Can be placed inside your house. 1,000g
Mail
Egg Hunt
All Egg Locations (Odd years)
An optimized route to collect 18 eggs (Odd years)
All Egg Locations (Even years)
Trivia
To talk to Pierre in his booth in odd-numbered years, walk behind Pierre's General Store. In even-numbered years, simply walk to the right of the booth.
References
↑ See Event::eggHuntWinner in the game code.
History
1.3.27: Added Lawn Flamingo, Seasonal Plants to Pierre's shop.
1.4: Fixed bug preventing the egg in the back of Mayor Lewis' truck from being picked up. Fixed bug where NPCs would follow non-festival schedules after the festival.
1.5: Added new shop wares. Added new even-numbered year dialogues.
1.6: Repeat wins of the egg hunt now give out prize tickets instead of 1,000g. Layout of festival and placement of eggs now different on even years. Fixed bug where Egg Festival would require 12 eggs to win instead of 4 if there were 5 or more players.
Festivals
Spring Egg Festival • Desert Festival • Flower Dance
Summer Luau • Trout Derby • Dance of the Moonlight Jellies
Fall Stardew Valley Fair • Spirit's Eve
Winter Festival of Ice • SquidFest • Night Market • Feast of the Winter Star
Category: Spring festivals