Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Elliott
Information
Birthday  Fall 5
Lives In The Beach
Address Elliott's Cabin
Marriage Yes
Clinic Visit  Summer 9
Loved Gifts
Crab Cakes
Duck Feather
Lobster
Pomegranate
Squid Ink
Tom Kha Soup
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Two Hearts
5.2 Four Hearts
5.3 Six Hearts
5.4 Eight Hearts
5.5 Ten Hearts
5.6 Group Ten-Heart Event
5.7 Fourteen Hearts
6 Marriage
7 Quotes
8 Quests
9 Portraits
10 Timeline
11 Trivia
12 History
“ “Elliott lives alone in a cabin on the beach. He is a writer who dreams of one day writing a magnificent novel. He is a sentimental “romantic” with a tendency to go off onto flowery, poetic tangents. When he can afford it, he enjoys a strong beverage at the Stardrop Saloon. Could a humble farmer such as yourself be the inspiration Elliott is looking for? There’s only one way to find out…”
— Dev Update #12
Elliott is a villager who lives on the beach south of Pelican Town. He's one of the twelve characters available to marry.
During Spring, Summer, and Fall, players must first acquire two hearts of friendship with Elliott before being allowed inside his cabin. Players at any friendship level may enter in Winter between 10am and 6pm.
Schedule
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Elliott may randomly spend the day there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Elliott will immediately go home to bed. Elliott never visits the Resort on Festival days or his checkup day at Harvey's Clinic.
Below are Elliott's schedules prioritized highest to lowest within each season. For example, if it is raining, that schedule overrides all others below it.
Expand
 Spring

Expand
 Summer

Expand
 Fall

Expand
 Winter

Expand
 Marriage
Relationships
Elliott lives alone in a cabin on the beach near Willy's Fish Shop. He is friends with Willy and Leah. He will dance with Leah at the Flower Dance if neither of them are dancing with the player.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Elliott up to two gifts per week (plus one on his birthday), which will raise or lower his friendship with you. Gifts on his birthday ( 5 Fall) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved, liked, or neutral gifts, Elliott responds
“ “I'm honored that you would remember my birthday! Thank you!”
For disliked or hated gifts, Elliott responds
“ “Another year gone by, another gray hair... I suppose this gift can commemorate my decline.”
Love
“ “(Name), this is a beautiful gift! Thank you!”
Duck Feather
“ “This will make a beautiful quill! I feel inspired already...”
Squid Ink
“ “Ah, a bottle of fine ink. A writer can never have too much... and it's quite expensive! Thank you!”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Ah, what a gift! The aroma alone is inspiring...”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Crab Cakes Crab, bread crumbs, and egg formed into patties then fried to a golden brown. Cooking
Crab (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Egg (1)
Oil (1)
Duck Feather It's so colorful. Ducks
Lobster A large ocean-dwelling crustacean with a strong tail. Crab Pot
Pomegranate Within the fruit are clusters of juicy seeds. Pomegranate Tree, The Cave (fruit bat option)
Squid Ink Squid use this ink to confuse would-be predators. Squid Kid, Fish Pond
Tom Kha Soup These flavors are incredible! Cooking
Coconut (1)
Shrimp (1)
Common Mushroom (1)
Like
“ “This is for me? Marvelous!”
Any Book
“ “Ah, a book... Yes, perhaps the prose within these pages will offer a new insight. Thank you.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes (except Amaranth, Pizza, & Rainbow Shell)
All Books
All Fruit (except Pomegranate & Salmonberry)
Octopus A mysterious and intelligent creature. Fishing
Squid A deep sea creature that can grow to enormous size. Fishing
Neutral
“ “Oh, a present! Thank you!”
Any Forage from the Beach (except Seaweed)
“ “Ah, you've been doing some beach combing... A fine hobby! Thank you.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals (except Books, Duck Feather, & Squid Ink)
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
All Fish (except Carp, Lobster, Octopus, Sea Cucumber, Snail, & Squid)
Rainbow Shell It's a very beautiful shell. Foraging - The Beach
Sea Urchin A slow-moving, spiny creature that some consider a delicacy. Foraging - The Beach
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Dislike
“ “Hmm... I'm not a huge fan of this.”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Dislikes (except Fish)
All Milk
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Pizza It's popular for all the right reasons. Cooking, The Stardrop Saloon
Wheat Flour (1)
Tomato (1)
Cheese (1)
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - Fall
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
Hate
“ “This item gives me a terrible feeling. I'll have to dispose of it.”
Sea Cucumber or Super Cucumber
“ “Agh, it's still wriggling! Get that abomination away from me!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates (except Sea Urchin)
Amaranth A purple grain cultivated by an ancient civilization. Crops - Fall
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - The Mines
Salmonberry A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest. Foraging - Spring
Sea Cucumber* A slippery, slimy creature found on the ocean floor. Fishing
Super Cucumber* A rare, purple variety of sea cucumber. Fishing
*If the player attempts to gift Elliott a Sea Cucumber or Super Cucumber, he will give it back to them reverting the item to regular quality.
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
Mysterium
Like
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Wumbus
Dislike
It Howls In The Rain
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Love
Cappuccino Mousse Cake
Stardrop Sorbet
Truffle Popcorn
Like
Apple Slices
Chocolate Popcorn
Hummus Snack Pack
Ice Cream Sandwich
Jasmine Tea
Kale Smoothie
Panzanella Salad
Salmon Burger
Star Cookie
Dislike
Everything else
Heart Events
Two Hearts
Enter Elliott's cabin when he's there.
Expand
Details 
Four Hearts
Enter the Stardrop Saloon between 3pm and 10pm when Gus is there.
Expand
Details 
Six Hearts
Enter Elliott's home when he's there.
Expand
Details 
Eight Hearts
After receiving a letter from Elliott, visit the museum between 1pm and 7pm. (It doesn't need to be the same day.)
Expand
Details 
Ten Hearts
Go to the beach on a day when it is not raining between 7am and 1pm. A letter will be sent to you but it is not needed to trigger the event.
Expand
Details 
Group Ten-Heart Event
If the player is unmarried and has given a bouquet to all available bachelors, raised friendship with each bachelor to 10 hearts, and seen each bachelor's 10-heart event, then entering The Stardrop Saloon will trigger a cutscene. If Alex is the final bachelor you share a Ten-Heart Event with, the Group Ten-Heart Event will be unavoidable as it is triggered immediately afterwards.
Expand
Details 
This event will trigger only one time per save file. This event will not trigger if you are married or have given a Wilted Bouquet or Mermaid's Pendant to one of the marriage candidates.
Fourteen Hearts
Exit the farm house between 6am and 3pm on a day when there are no Festivals occurring for the next 8 days.
Expand
Details 
Marriage
Main article: Marriage
Once married, Elliott will move into the farmhouse. Like other marriage candidates, he will add his own room to the right of the bedroom. He'll also set up a small garden behind the farmhouse where he'll sometimes go to read.
On rainy mornings and mornings when Elliott stays inside the farmhouse all day, he may offer you Coffee. On rainy nights, he may offer you dinner: Baked Fish, Fried Calamari, Chowder, or Fish Stew. On New Years' Eve (Winter 28), he'll give you a bottle of Wine.
Marriage ceremony
Elliott's room
Elliott's garden
Quotes
Expand
Regular 


Expand
Events 
Expand
After Marriage 

Quests
Elliott may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
Portraits
Timeline
Elliott's look evolved over the years the game was in development. Here's a timeline showing how ConcernedApe's art and Elliott's style changed over the years before the game was launched.
Trivia
In Secret Note #7, it is confirmed that he is one of three "older bachelors" in Pelican Town.
Even though the letter for his 10-Heart event says to meet him "on a sunny day," it will still trigger if it is snowing.
If Elliott is gifted Sea Cucumber or Super Cucumber, he will not accept the gift and will give it back to the player.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Added reading garden area behind farmhouse if married.
1.3.27: Added group 10-heart event.
1.4: Added 14 heart event.
1.5: Added beach portraits. Elliott now loves Squid Ink as a gift.
1.6: Now hates Super Cucumber as a gift and is neutral towards Sea Urchin. Added winter portraits and more beach portraits. Added Elliott Portrait. Added Desert Festival interaction. Added custom married acceptance dialogue at the Flower Dance.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: Marriage candidates