Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Emerald
A precious stone with a brilliant green color.
Information
Source
Emerald Node
Gem Node
Dwarvish Sentry (10%)
Fishing
Panning
Sell Price 250g
Gemologist Profession (+30% Sell Price) 325g
Emerald is a Mineral. It can be obtained from Emerald Nodes and Gem Nodes in the Mines, from panning, or in Fishing Treasure Chests. It has a 10% chance to be dropped by a slain Dwarvish Sentry in the Volcano Dungeon. It may occasionally be found in a Garbage Can after the player has reached the bottom of the mines. It can also be received as a gift at the Feast of the Winter Star. The Statue Of Endless Fortune produces an Emerald on the birthdays of Clint, Emily, and Penny.
Cheese may be purchased at the Desert Trader on Fridays in exchange for 1 Emerald.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Forging
4 Recipes
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Clint •  Dwarf •  Emily •  Penny
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Demetrius •  Elliott •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leo •  Lewis •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Dislike  Leah •  Linus •  Pierre
Bundles
Emerald is one of the options for the Treasure Hunter's Bundle in the Boiler Room (Remixed).
Forging
Emerald can be used at the Forge to increase the speed of a melee weapon.
Recipes
Emerald is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Emerald is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create a Shirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a green dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Emerald may be randomly requested during any season at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store for a reward of 750g and 150 Friendship points. Emerald will never be requested until you have reached floors 80+ of The Mines.
Two Emeralds may be requested by Octopus, Rainbow Trout, Spook Fish, or Super Cucumber in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 5 to 7.
Emerald will be requested by Emily as part of the "Rock Rejuvenation" quest at the Special Orders board outside Mayor Lewis' house.
May be used in the Gem Birds puzzle on Ginger Island.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests.
1.5: Can be requested in a Special Order quest. Can be used in Forging. Also used in Gem Birds puzzle. Is now an option in the Treasure Hunter's Bundle.
Minerals
Foraged Minerals Earth Crystal • Fire Quartz • Frozen Tear • Quartz
Gems Amethyst • Aquamarine • Diamond • Emerald • Jade • Prismatic Shard • Ruby • Topaz
Geode Minerals Aerinite • Alamite • Baryte • Basalt • Bixite • Calcite • Celestine • Dolomite • Esperite • Fairy Stone • Fire Opal • Fluorapatite • Geminite • Ghost Crystal • Granite • Helvite • Hematite • Jagoite • Jamborite • Jasper • Kyanite • Lemon Stone • Limestone • Lunarite • Malachite • Marble • Mudstone • Nekoite • Neptunite • Obsidian • Ocean Stone • Opal • Orpiment • Petrified Slime • Pyrite • Sandstone • Slate • Soapstone • Star Shards • Thunder Egg • Tigerseye
Geodes Geode • Frozen Geode • Magma Geode • Omni Geode
Category: Gems