Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Evelyn
Information
Birthday  Winter 20
Lives In Pelican Town
Address 1 River Road
Family
George (Husband)
Alex (Grandson)
Marriage No
Clinic Visit The 2nd of each season
The 23rd of each season (with George)
Loved Gifts
Beet
Chocolate Cake
Diamond
Fairy Rose
Raisins
Stuffing
Tulip
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Anytime
5.2 Four Hearts
5.3 Seven Hearts
6 Quotes
7 Quests
8 Portraits
9 Trivia
10 History
“ “Evelyn has lived in Pelican Town her entire life. Always hopeful and optimistic, "Granny" spends her days tending the town gardens, baking her signature cookies, and reminiscing about Stardew Valley's vibrant past.”
— Steam Description
Evelyn Mullner is a villager who lives in Pelican Town, and is in charge of the town's flowers.
Schedule
She can usually be found in her home's kitchen or tending to the gardens in the center of town. On the 2nd of every season, she has an appointment at the clinic, and on the 23rd of every season she accompanies George to his appointment. Evelyn never visits the Beach Resort on Ginger Island.
Shown below are Evelyn's schedules prioritized highest to lowest. For example, if it is raining, that schedule overrides all others below it.
Expand
Spring 17 (Bus Service Restored)
Expand
Desert Festival (As Vendor)
Expand
Green Rain (Year 1)
Expand
Tuesday the 2nd
Expand
Tuesday the 23rd
Expand
Winter 17
Expand
Rain
Expand
Monday, Thursday and Saturday (Community Center Restored)
Expand
Summer
Expand
Regular Schedule
Relationships
Evelyn is married to George, and lives with her grandson Alex. Alex's deceased mother Clara was Evelyn's daughter.
In Evelyn's nightstand is a note written to her addressed as Momma. The note reads:
“ “Momma- If you're reading this, it means I've passed on. I'm so sorry you had to go through this. Know that I love you both.
Don't be too upset, I'm with Yoba now.
My final request: take care of Alex. He needs a family, something stable. He's a good kid.
Love, Clara”
This is possibly a note from Evelyn's daughter, Clara, who is the mother of Alex. Clara passed away and left Alex to live with Evelyn and George.
In the beginning of Stardew Valley, when meeting all the townspeople, Evelyn will give you permission to call her "Granny".
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Evelyn up to two gifts per week (plus one on her birthday), which will raise or lower her friendship with you. Gifts on her birthday ( 20 Winter) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved or liked gifts, Evelyn responds
“ “A birthday gift? That's very kind of you! I love it.”
“ “You remembered my birthday! Thank you. This is great.”
For neutral gifts, Evelyn responds
“ “Oh, a birthday gift! Thank you.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Evelyn responds
“ “Oh... It's for my birthday? ... Thanks.”
Love
“ “*gasp*... This is absolutely marvelous!”
If you click on Evelyn again after giving a Loved gift, she will say:
“ “You've made an old lady very happy.”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Oh, you're giving this to me? Thank you so much, dear. This is a really special gift!”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Beet A sweet and earthy root vegetable. As a bonus, the leaves make a great salad. Farming
Chocolate Cake Rich and moist with a thick fudge icing. Cooking
Wheat Flour (1)
Sugar (1)
Egg (1)
Diamond A rare and valuable gem. Mining
Fairy Rose An old folk legend suggests that the sweet smell of this flower attracts fairies. Farming
Raisins It's said to be the Junimos' favorite food. Dehydrator
Grape (5)
Stuffing Ahh... the smell of warm bread and sage. Cooking
Bread (1)
Cranberries (1)
Hazelnut (1)
Tulip The most popular spring flower. Has a very faint sweet smell. Farming
Like
“ “Oh my, it looks wonderful! That's very kind of you.”
Any Forage from the Beach (except Seaweed)
“ “Thank you, dear. This brings back such sweet memories...”
Broken Glasses
“ “Thank you, dear. I've been looking everywhere for my reading glasses...
My, my! They've become filthy...”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes (except Fried Eel, Garlic, Maki Roll, Sashimi, Spicy Eel, & Trout Soup)
All Milk
Broken Glasses It looks like someone lost their glasses. They're busted. Garbage Cans, Fishing Trash
Clam There's a chewy little guy in there... Foraging - The Beach, Saltwater Crab Pots
Cockle A common saltwater clam. Foraging - The Beach, Saltwater Crab Pots
Coral A colony of tiny creatures that clump together to form beautiful structures. Foraging - The Beach
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Mussel A common bivalve that often lives in clusters. Foraging - The Beach, Saltwater Crab Pots
Nautilus Shell An ancient shell. Foraging - The Beach
Oyster Constantly filters water to find food. In the process, it removes dangerous toxins from the environment. Foraging - The Beach, Saltwater Crab Pots
Sea Urchin A slow-moving, spiny creature that some consider a delicacy. Foraging - The Beach
Neutral
“ “How nice. Thank you, dear.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals (except Coral & Nautilus Shell)
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
All Fruit (except Fruit Tree Fruit, Salmonberry, & Spice Berry)
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Dislike
“ “Um, Where will I put this?”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Clay & Fish)
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - The Mines
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Hate
“ “...it smells awful.”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Hates (except Broken Glasses & Sea Urchin)
All Fish (except Clam, Cockle, Mussel, & Oyster)
Clay Used in crafting and construction. Tilling
Fried Eel Greasy but flavorful. Cooking
Eel (1)
Oil (1)
Garlic Adds a wonderful zestiness to dishes. High quality garlic can be pretty spicy. Farming - Spring
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Maki Roll Fish and rice wrapped in seaweed. Cooking
Fish (1)
Seaweed (1)
Rice (1)
Salmonberry A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest. Foraging - Spring
Sashimi Raw fish sliced into thin pieces. Cooking
Fish (1)
Spice Berry It fills the air with a pungent aroma. Foraging - Summer
Spicy Eel It's really spicy! Be careful. Cooking
Eel (1)
Hot Pepper (1)
Trout Soup Pretty salty. Cooking
Rainbow Trout (1)
Green Algae (1)
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Like
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
Wumbus
Dislike
It Howls In The Rain
Mysterium
Love
Cappuccino Mousse Cake
Star Cookie
Stardrop Sorbet
Dislike
Black Licorice
Fries
Jasmine Tea
Joja Cola
JojaCorn
Nachos
Personal Pizza
Popcorn
Salted Peanuts
Truffle Popcorn
Like
Everything else
Heart Events
Anytime
At any friendship level greater than zero friendship points, you may receive a gift in the mail from Evelyn. The chance of receiving a gift in the mail increases as your friendship with Evelyn increases.
Expand
Details 
Four Hearts
Enter Evelyn's home while she is inside.
Expand
Details 
Seven Hearts
After reaching 7 hearts with Evelyn she will send the player a recipe in the mail.
Expand
Details 
Quotes
Expand
Regular 
Expand
Events 

Quests
"Granny's Gift": Evelyn will send you a letter on the 15th of Spring, year 2, asking for a Leek. The reward is 500g and 1 Friendship heart.
Evelyn may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
"Gifts for George": On the Special Orders board in front of the Mayor's Manor during Spring, Evelyn may randomly request that the player collect and deliver 12 Leeks to the stove in her house. The reward is 2,000g and a Coffee Maker.
Portraits
Trivia
Evelyn may still tell you she might share her Cookie recipe with you after she shares it with you in her 4-heart event.
History
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Added winter portraits. Broken Glasses is now a liked item. All foraged items from the Beach (except Seaweed) are now liked.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs