Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Explosive Ammo
Fire this with the slingshot.
Information
Source
Crafting
Adventurer's Guild
Sell Price 20g
Crafting
Recipe Source Combat Level 8
Ingredients
Iron Bar (1)
Coal (2)
Produces 5 Explosive Ammo per craft
Explosive Ammo is a one-time use item that damages anything within its explosion radius. Unlike other explosive items, it must be used with a slingshot.
The Explosive Ammo crafting recipe is unlocked at Combat Level 8. For each time it's crafted, the player will get 5 pieces of Explosive Ammo. After the recipe is unlocked, it can be purchased from the Adventurer's Guild for 300g each.
To equip a slingshot with explosive ammo, select the ammo, then Right-Click on the slingshot.
Ammo will detonate when it hits an enemy, the wall of a cave, a ladder, or water. Otherwise, it will pass straight through other objects, such as rocks or plants.
Contents
1 Radius
2 Gifting
3 Dyeing
4 Notes
5 History
Radius
Explosive Ammo has a radius of 2 tiles.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Dyeing
Explosive ammo can be used in dyeing, serving as a red dye in the dye pots in Emily and Haley's house, located at 2 Willow Lane.
Notes
In Year 1, it is cheaper to buy the Iron Ore and Coal at the Blacksmith and craft Explosive Ammo than to purchase it from the Adventurer's Guild.
History
1.4.1: Decreased radius to 2. Changed price from 100g to 300g. Can now be purchased from the Adventurer's Guild only after unlocking the recipe.

Weapons
Swords Bone Sword • Claymore • Cutlass • Dark Sword • Dragontooth Cutlass • Dwarf Sword • Forest Sword • Galaxy Sword • Haley's Iron • Holy Blade • Infinity Blade • Insect Head • Iron Edge • Lava Katana • Leah's Whittler • Meowmere • Neptune's Glaive • Obsidian Edge • Ossified Blade • Pirate's Sword • Rusty Sword • Silver Saber • Steel Falchion • Steel Smallsword • Tempered Broadsword • Templar's Blade • Wooden Blade • Yeti Tooth
Daggers Abby's Planchette • Broken Trident • Burglar's Shank • Carving Knife • Crystal Dagger • Dragontooth Shiv • Dwarf Dagger • Elf Blade • Elliott's Pencil • Galaxy Dagger • Infinity Dagger • Iridium Needle • Iron Dirk • Shadow Dagger • Wicked Kris • Wind Spire
Clubs Alex's Bat • Dragontooth Club • Dwarf Hammer • Femur • Galaxy Hammer • Harvey's Mallet • Infinity Gavel • Kudgel • Lead Rod • Maru's Wrench • Penny's Fryer • Seb's Lost Mace • Sam's Old Guitar • The Slammer • Wood Club • Wood Mallet
Slingshots Slingshot • Master Slingshot • Explosive Ammo
Unobtainable Weapons Galaxy Slingshot • Rapier
Category: Craftable items