Jump to navigation
Jump to search
The Festival of Ice takes place on the 8th of every Winter. The player attends the festival by entering Cindersap Forest between 9am and 2pm. When the festival ends, the player will be returned to The Farm at 10pm.
The festival features ice sculptures, snowmen, and igloos. There's also an Ice Fishing Contest the player can take part in along with Pam, Willy, and Elliott. The player must catch at least five fish to win the competition, or else Willy will win. The first time the player wins, their prize is two tackles (a Barbed Hook and a Dressed Spinner), a Magnet, and a Sailor's Cap. Thereafter, winning awards a Prize Ticket.
If two or more players in a Multiplayer game win the Ice Fishing Contest, all winning players receive the reward(s).
The holes in the ice are quite small, so it can be difficult to cast into them. Standing close to the hole and casting a minimal distance is the easiest way to do this. It is possible to catch fish outside of the frozen lake, in the forest pond and the forest river. Fish caught in the forest pond count towards the fishing competition, but those caught in the river do not.
The festival ends automatically after Mayor Lewis judges the fishing contest.
On the day of the Festival, every home and shop in Stardew Valley is "locked" and cannot be entered.
Contents
1 Shop
2 Dialogue
3 Images
4 Mail
5 Trivia
6 History
Shop
The Traveling Merchant has a booth from which she sells the following items.
Image Name Description Price
Rarecrow (1) Collect them all! (4 of 8) 5,000g
Tree of the Winter Star Can be placed as decoration. 5,000g
Wallpaper Decorates the walls of one room. 500g
'Frozen Dreams' Can be placed inside your house. 2,000g
Icy Rug Can be placed inside your house. 4,000g
Winter Dining Table Can be placed as decoration. 3,000g
Icy Banner Can be placed inside your house. 800g
Wall Sconce Can be placed inside your house. 1,000g
Winter End Table Can be placed as decoration. 1,000g
Cranberry Sauce (1) A festive treat. 200g
Stuffing (1) Ahh... the smell of warm bread and sage. 200g
Pumpkin Soup (1) A seasonal favorite. 250g
Dialogue
Each year, unless she is married, Penny will ask what kind of snowman she and Jas should build. Three responses are possible:
Classic Snowman (carrot nose, coal eyes, scarf) -- [She will smile and say that it is best to stick with the classics.]
A Funky Snowman (Icicle antennae, pine cone eyes) -- [She will smile and say that it sounds like a fun idea.]
Tell her Snowmen are boring and she should build something 'outside the box!' -- [She will say she would rather stick to something a bit more conventional.]
Willy will also ask if the player is they ready for some ice fishing. Three answers are possible:
Yes. I'll do my best! -- [He will smile and say that's the spirit!]
Yes, and I'm going to beat you! -- [He will simply say we'll see.]
To be honest, no. I'm bad at fishing. -- [He will smile and say to think of this as good practice.]
Images
Mail
Trivia
Contest fish do not register as "caught" unless the animation showing the fish flying back to the player is completed. It is possible to catch the fifth fish just as time runs out (with the bar announcing a "perfect" catch) and still lose the contest because the fifth fish did not complete its flying animation.
Fish caught during the festival don't give fishing experience. Because of this, if the player has never fished, they'll see the fishing instructions every time they attempt to catch one.
The player does not use their own fishing rod when fishing during the festival, so the player will not be able to use bait, tackle, or fishing rods with enchantments.
History
1.4: Fixed bug where NPCs would follow non-festival schedules after the festival. Festival winnings count towards total earnings.
1.5: Traveling Merchant's shop introduced. Clicking pigs at the festival now produces a pig sound. Fixed various issues relating to the map, such as being able to prematurely end the festival from certain tiles.
1.5.3: Can no longer catch Qi Beans when fishing during the festival.
1.5.4: Fixed the common fishing rod softlock during the festival.
1.6: Fixed unable to leave the Festival of Ice until it ends. Fixed Lewis skipping his final dialogue at the Festival of Ice on subsequent player wins. Fixed the ! fish bite icon not shown when fishing in the Festival of Ice. Adjusted variety of fish players can catch during the festival. Changed the winning prize when winning after the first win from 2,000g to a Prize Ticket. Fixed bugs where player would get stuck in fishing pose. It is no longer possible to catch Secret Notes during the contest. The player can no longer interact with NPCs during the ice fishing event.
Festivals
Spring Egg Festival • Desert Festival • Flower Dance
Summer Luau • Trout Derby • Dance of the Moonlight Jellies
Fall Stardew Valley Fair • Spirit's Eve
Winter Festival of Ice • SquidFest • Night Market • Feast of the Winter Star
Category: Winter festivals