Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Fire Quartz
A glowing red crystal commonly found near hot lava.
Information
Source
The Mines (floors 80+)
Magma Geode
Omni Geode
Panning
Fishing
Sell Price 100g
Gemologist Profession (+30% Sell Price) 130g
Fire Quartz is a Mineral. It can be foraged in the Mines (floors 80+), in the Skull Cavern or found inside a Magma Geode or Omni Geode. It can also be found by panning or inside Fishing Treasure Chests. It may occasionally be found in a Garbage Can after the player reaches the bottom of the mines. One Fire Quartz can sometimes be purchased for 2,500g from Pierre's booth at the Feast of the Winter Star.
Fire Quartz can be destroyed by bombs.
Fire Quartz can be used along with 1 coal in a furnace to produce 3 Refined Quartz, taking 1.5 in-game hours to smelt.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Crafting
4 Smelting
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leo •  Lewis •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Dislike  Leah •  Linus •  Pierre
Bundles
Fire Quartz is used in the Geologist's Bundle in the Boiler Room.
Crafting
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Slime Egg-Press Compresses 100 pieces of slime into a slime egg. It's a miracle of science!
Coal (25)
Fire Quartz (1)
Battery Pack (1)
Combat Level 6
Dehydrator Place 5 pieces of fruit or edible mushrooms inside to dry them.
Wood (30)
Clay (2)
Fire Quartz (1)
Pierre's General Store (10,000g)
Smelting
To smelt Fire Quartz, equip it and activate the furnace while there is Coal in inventory. One unit of Coal is required for each smelting operation, regardless of the material or duration.
Ingredients Equipment Smelting Time Produces
Fire Quartz (1)
Coal (1)
Furnace
1.5 hours
Refined Quartz (3)
Tailoring
Fire Quartz is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create a Shirt. It can also be used as a red dye color at the dye pots in Emily's and Haley's house, located at 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Fire Quartz may be randomly requested during any season at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store for a reward of 300g and 150 Friendship points. Fire Quartz will never be requested until you have reached level 80+ of The Mines.
Three Fire Quartz are requested by Lava Eel in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 1 to 3.
History
1.3.27: Added ability to smelt into Refined Quartz.
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in a Fish Pond quest.
1.6: Used as an ingredient for Dehydrator. Now sometimes sold at the Feast of the Winter Star.
Minerals
Foraged Minerals Earth Crystal • Fire Quartz • Frozen Tear • Quartz
Gems Amethyst • Aquamarine • Diamond • Emerald • Jade • Prismatic Shard • Ruby • Topaz
Geode Minerals Aerinite • Alamite • Baryte • Basalt • Bixite • Calcite • Celestine • Dolomite • Esperite • Fairy Stone • Fire Opal • Fluorapatite • Geminite • Ghost Crystal • Granite • Helvite • Hematite • Jagoite • Jamborite • Jasper • Kyanite • Lemon Stone • Limestone • Lunarite • Malachite • Marble • Mudstone • Nekoite • Neptunite • Obsidian • Ocean Stone • Opal • Orpiment • Petrified Slime • Pyrite • Sandstone • Slate • Soapstone • Star Shards • Thunder Egg • Tigerseye
Geodes Geode • Frozen Geode • Magma Geode • Omni Geode
Category: Foraged Minerals