Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Fish Smoker
    Place fish inside with a piece of coal to create smoked fish, which is worth double. The quality of the fish is preserved.
Information
Source Crafting
Sell Price Cannot be sold
Crafting
Recipe Source Fish Shop for 10,000g
Ingredients
Hardwood (10)
Sea Jelly (1)
River Jelly (1)
Cave Jelly (1)
The Fish Smoker is a type of Artisan Equipment that is used to create smoked fish using any fish and 1 coal. It doubles the sell price of a fish while retaining quality, as well as multiplying the energy and health restoration by 1.5. The smoker accepts Legendary Fish as well as Crab Pot specific fish, making the latter now edible.
It can be crafted after purchasing the recipe from the Fish Shop for 10,000g. It is also a possible reward as the 12th prize from the Prize Machine in the Mayor's Manor (50% chance). Players on the Riverland Farm start with one Fish Smoker.
Products
Image Name Description Ingredients Processing Time Sell Price Energy / Health
Smoked Fish A whole fish, smoked to perfection. Any Fish (1)
Coal (1)
50 mins
2 × Fish Price
1.5 × Fish Energy
1.5 × Fish Health
History
1.6: Introduced.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Category: Craftable items