Jump to navigation
Jump to search
“ “Decorates the floor of one room.”
For crafted flooring and paths, see Crafting.
For furniture, see Furniture.
For wallpaper, see Wallpaper.
Flooring is an item that can be used to decorate the floor of the farmhouse, cabins, island farmhouse, sheds, and slime hutches. It is available from the catalogue and randomly sold at both Pierre's General Store and JojaMart.
Flooring is single-use, and does not stack. It covers the whole room it's placed in and can also be placed on hallway floors between rooms.
Contents
1 Flooring Types
2 Sources
3 References
4 History
Flooring Types
These are all the flooring types, listed in the order they appear in the catalogue.
Icon Floor View Icon Floor View Icon Floor View Icon Floor View Icon Floor View
Sources
All flooring types are available from the Catalogue.
A random one of the first 56 flooring types is sold at Pierre's General Store for 200g.[1]
A random one of the first 40 flooring types is sold at JojaMart for 250g. If the flooring sold a Pierre's is one of these 40, the one sold at JojaMart will be the same.[2]
Some specific flooring types have other sources, as listed in the table below.
Icon Floor View Other Sources
Junimo Catalogue

Wizard Catalogue
Joja Furniture Catalogue
Junimo Catalogue
Wizard Catalogue
Retro Catalogue
Retro Catalogue
Retro Catalogue
Retro Catalogue
Junimo Catalogue
0.1% chance per night for a Cursed Mannequin to redecorate the floor underneath it with this.[3]
Retro Catalogue
Purchased from the Casino for 100,000.
References
↑ See Data/Shops.xnb in the game files.
↑ See Data/Shops.xnb in the game files and ItemQueryResolver::RANDOM_ITEMS in the game code.
↑ See Objects/Mannequin::DayUpdate in the game code. Only triggers if the Mannequin doesn't move or change clothes with the farmer. The floor selected is always the floor on which the Mannequin is standing.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Made all varieties available for sale from the Catalogue.
1.4: Added 16 new floorings (#41-56).
1.6: Added 41 new floorings. Price at Pierre's increased from 100g to 200g.
1.6.9: Fixed bug where Villagers would avoid tiles containing flooring.
Category: House customization