Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Frozen Tear
A crystal fabled to be the frozen tears of a yeti.
Information
Source
The Mines (floors 40-79)
Skull Cavern
Frozen Geode
Omni Geode
Dust Sprite (2%)
Panning
Fishing
Ice Pip Fish Pond
Sell Price 75g
Gemologist Profession (+30% Sell Price) 97g
The Frozen Tear is a Mineral that can be found:
via foraging in The Mines between floors 40 and 79.
this is reduced to floors 71-79 if the Dangerous Mines are active.
from slain Dust Sprites in The Mines (2% chance).
in containers in The Mines between floors 40 and 79 after the player has reached the bottom of The Mines (4.62% chance)
by panning (4.9% chance).
in Frozen Geodes (6.25% chance) and Omni Geodes (2.0833% chance).
in Fishing Treasure Chests (4% chance).
occasionally in a Garbage Can after the player has reached the bottom of The Mines.
in an Ice Pip Fish Pond, which may produce 5 Frozen Tears when the population of the pond reaches 9.
through the mail from the Wizard at any friendship level greater than zero friendship points.
at the Statue Of Endless Fortune on Winter 10, Sebastian's birthday.
as an item sometimes sold for 2,500g from Pierre's booth at the Feast of the Winter Star.
via foraging in the Skull Cavern
Frozen Tear can be destroyed by bombs.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Recipes
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Sebastian
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leo •  Lewis •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Dislike  Leah •  Linus •  Pierre
Bundles
Frozen Tear is used in the Geologist's Bundle in the Boiler Room.
Recipes
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Warrior Ring Occasionally infuses the wearer with "warrior energy" after slaying a monster.
Iron Bar (10)
Coal (25)
Frozen Tear (10)
Combat Level 4
Tailoring
Frozen Tear is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with Cloth in the feed to create a Dark Jacket. It is a cyan dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed. It can be placed in the blue dye pot at Emily's and Haley's house for use in dyeing.
Quests
Frozen Tear may be randomly requested during any season at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store for a reward of 225g and 150 Friendship points.
2 Frozen Tears may be requested by Blobfish in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 1 to 3.
5 Frozen Tears may be requested by Ice Pip in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 3 to 5.
History
1.3.27: Can now be found in Omni Geodes.
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests. Can be produced by Fish Ponds.
1.6: Now sometimes sold at the Feast of the Winter Star.
Minerals
Foraged Minerals Earth Crystal • Fire Quartz • Frozen Tear • Quartz
Gems Amethyst • Aquamarine • Diamond • Emerald • Jade • Prismatic Shard • Ruby • Topaz
Geode Minerals Aerinite • Alamite • Baryte • Basalt • Bixite • Calcite • Celestine • Dolomite • Esperite • Fairy Stone • Fire Opal • Fluorapatite • Geminite • Ghost Crystal • Granite • Helvite • Hematite • Jagoite • Jamborite • Jasper • Kyanite • Lemon Stone • Limestone • Lunarite • Malachite • Marble • Mudstone • Nekoite • Neptunite • Obsidian • Ocean Stone • Opal • Orpiment • Petrified Slime • Pyrite • Sandstone • Slate • Soapstone • Star Shards • Thunder Egg • Tigerseye
Geodes Geode • Frozen Geode • Magma Geode • Omni Geode
Category: Foraged Minerals