Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Galaxy Sword
It's unlike anything you've ever seen.
Information
Type: Sword
Level: 13
Source:
Three Pillars in the Calico Desert
Adventurer's Guild
Damage: 60-80
Critical Strike Chance: .02
Stats:
Speed (+4)
Adventurer's Guild
Purchase Price: 50,000g
Sell Price: 650g
The Galaxy Sword is a sword weapon that can be obtained by taking a Prismatic Shard to the Three Pillars in the Calico Desert. While holding the shard, enter the centermost tile between the three pillars. The Prismatic Shard will be consumed.
The Galaxy Sword will not be "lost" upon the players' health being reduced to 0 in the mines.
After obtaining a Galaxy Sword, players will not be able to use a Prismatic Shard to obtain another. If lost or sold, another sword may be purchased from Marlon for 50,000g.
Obtaining a Galaxy Sword unlocks the Galaxy Hammer and Galaxy Dagger in the Adventurer's Guild shop.
The Galaxy Sword can be combined with Galaxy Soul (3) and Cinder Shard (60) in the Forge to create an Infinity Blade.
Hint
A hint about how to obtain the Galaxy Sword can be found by reading the Dwarvish headstone in the Graveyard. The hint will be in Dwarvish until the player obtains the Dwarvish Translation Guide.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: After obtaining the sword, it can be purchased from Marlon. Now unlocks the Galaxy Hammer and Galaxy Dagger for purchase.
1.4: Fixed bug allowing wallpaper #75 to be used in place of a Prismatic Shard at the Three Pillars. Fixed bug where the entire stack of Prismatic Shards would be consumed at the Three Pillars.
1.5: Can now be changed into an Infinity Blade. Level lowered from 26 to 13, sell price lowered from 1,300g to 650g.

Weapons
Swords Bone Sword • Claymore • Cutlass • Dark Sword • Dragontooth Cutlass • Dwarf Sword • Forest Sword • Galaxy Sword • Haley's Iron • Holy Blade • Infinity Blade • Insect Head • Iron Edge • Lava Katana • Leah's Whittler • Meowmere • Neptune's Glaive • Obsidian Edge • Ossified Blade • Pirate's Sword • Rusty Sword • Silver Saber • Steel Falchion • Steel Smallsword • Tempered Broadsword • Templar's Blade • Wooden Blade • Yeti Tooth
Daggers Abby's Planchette • Broken Trident • Burglar's Shank • Carving Knife • Crystal Dagger • Dragontooth Shiv • Dwarf Dagger • Elf Blade • Elliott's Pencil • Galaxy Dagger • Infinity Dagger • Iridium Needle • Iron Dirk • Shadow Dagger • Wicked Kris • Wind Spire
Clubs Alex's Bat • Dragontooth Club • Dwarf Hammer • Femur • Galaxy Hammer • Harvey's Mallet • Infinity Gavel • Kudgel • Lead Rod • Maru's Wrench • Penny's Fryer • Seb's Lost Mace • Sam's Old Guitar • The Slammer • Wood Club • Wood Mallet
Slingshots Slingshot • Master Slingshot • Explosive Ammo
Unobtainable Weapons Galaxy Slingshot • Rapier
Category: Swords