Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Garden Pot
Grows crops from any season when indoors. Outdoors, it can only house seasonal crops.
Information
Source Crafting
Sell Price Cannot be sold
Crafting
Recipe Source Evelyn cutscene after completing the Greenhouse
Ingredients
Clay (1)
Stone (10)
Refined Quartz (1)
A Garden Pot is a crafted item that allows crops to be grown indoors. It can also be used to grow crops on The Farm or the Ginger Island Farm. The crops can be from any season, except outdoors on The Farm, where they must be from the current season. A Garden Pot cannot grow Ancient Seeds, rejecting them at any time, indoors or outdoors.
After the Greenhouse is completed, Evelyn visits the farm and gives the player one Garden Pot and the recipe for crafting more. The cutscene triggers when the player exits the Farmhouse between 6am and 11:30am on a Sunny day (cannot be windy, rainy, stormy, or snowing), during any season. The event cannot trigger for the first 3 days after the greenhouse is built via completing the Pantry bundles, and it may take longer than 3 days. There is no 3-day delay in triggering the event when repairing the greenhouse via the Joja Community Development Form[1].
Flowers planted in Garden Pots will enable nearby Bee Houses to produce flower honey.
Crows do not attack crops grown in Garden Pots. Giant crops cannot be grown in garden pots, just as they cannot be grown in the greenhouse.
Contents
1 Use
2 Notes
3 References
4 History
Use
Garden Pots can be placed and produce crops "indoors" - that is, in any space not affected by weather. Available locations include the Farmhouse, Island Farmhouse, all farm buildings, The Cave, The Tunnel, The Sewers, the Mutant Bug Lair, the Witch's Swamp, the entrances to The Mines and Skull Cavern, and villagers' homes.
Garden Pots accept crop seeds (other than ancient seeds) in outdoor areas on The Farm or the Ginger Island Farm. They accept only Tea Saplings elsewhere outdoors, however.
Garden Pots do not need to be tilled with a Hoe before planting. Fertilizer of all types may be used in Garden Pots, with the same restrictions and benefits as in tilled soil.
Garden Pots cannot be watered with sprinklers. As a result, players must water crops in Garden Pots on a daily basis with a Watering Can, or less often if they use a type of Retaining Soil. If the player fertilizes the Garden Pot with Deluxe Retaining Soil, the crop needs to be watered only once. Crops that don’t need to be watered such as Tea Saplings and Fiber Seeds don’t need to be watered in the Garden Pot.
Crops in Garden Pots can be harvested with the Iridium Scythe.
Once placed, a Garden Pot may be removed with a tool or by holding left-click. Removing a Pot that contains seeds or crops will destroy the seeds/crops.
Notes
An attempt to place Ancient Seeds in a Garden Pot displays the message "Her roots grow very deep... She wouldn't be happy in there."
An attempt to plant a seed from the current growing season (including Cactus Seeds) in an outdoor area outside the farms displays the message "Must be planted on farm".
Cactus Seeds planted in a Garden Pot outdoors on one of the farms will be dead the next day.
Garden Pots placed outside the farm are subject to being destroyed if placed in a villager's path. See Crafting for maps of safe locations.
References
↑ In the game code Events.WorldChangeEvent, completing the Pantry adds cc_Greenhouse to active dialogue events, while completing the Greenhouse via the Joja Community Development Form does not. The cutscene in which Evelyn gives the player the Garden Pot (and recipe) specifies that the active dialogue event cc_Greenhouse not be in progress. Therefore, the Joja route skips that requirement, so the cutscene can take place immediately.
History
1.3.27: Introduced.
1.4: Can now be stacked in a player's inventory and in chests.
1.5.5: Garden Pots no longer lose any applied fertilizers when they are harvested from. When placing a Garden Pot on Ginger Island on a rainy day, it will now spawn with its dirt correctly watered.
1.5.6: Fixed bug where Tea Saplings could not be harvested from Garden Pots on Ginger Island.
1.6.6: Bee houses now work with flowers in garden pots.
1.6.9: Fixed bug where crops grown in Garden Pots from Wild Seeds always produce normal quality crops and provide no XP/Mastery points.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Category: Craftable items