Jump to navigation
Jump to search
George
Information
Birthday  Fall 24
Lives In Pelican Town
Address 1 River Road
Family
Evelyn (Wife)
Alex (Grandson)
Marriage No
Clinic Visit The 23rd of each season
Loved Gifts
Fried Mushroom
Leek
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Anytime
5.2 Three Hearts
5.3 Six Hearts
5.4 Seven Hearts
6 Quotes
7 Quests
8 Trivia
9 Portraits
10 History
“ “My grand-pap was a farmer. It's a respectable profession. If I wasn't so darned old I'd come to your farm and show you a thing or two...”
— George
George Mullner is a villager who lives in Pelican Town.
Schedule
The 23rd of every season, George has an appointment at Harvey's Clinic, accompanied by Evelyn. George never visits the Beach Resort on Ginger Island.
Shown below are George's schedules prioritized highest to lowest. For example, if it is raining, that schedule overrides all others below it.
Spring 17 (Bus Service Restored)
Desert Festival (As Vendor)
Winter 17
Green Rain (Year 1)
Tuesday the 23rd (All Seasons)
Rain
Summer Friday
Sunday (Alex's 14 heart event seen)
Sunday
Regular Schedule
Relationships
George is married to Evelyn and lives with his grandson, Alex. Alex's deceased mother Clara was his daughter.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give George up to two gifts per week (plus one on his birthday), which will raise or lower his friendship with you. Gifts on his birthday ( 24 Fall) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved or liked gifts, George responds
“ “You remembered my birthday? I'm impressed. Thanks.”
“ “Oh, is it my birthday today? I guess it is. Thanks. This is nice.”
For neutral gifts, George responds
“ “For my birthday? Thanks.”
For disliked or hated gifts, George responds
“ “It's my birthday and you give me this? Is this some kind of joke?”
Love
“ “This is my favorite thing! Thank you.”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Hmm... *sip*... ahhh... Tastes just like Mama's tuna casserole! Delicious!”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Fried Mushroom Earthy and aromatic. Cooking
Common Mushroom (1)
Morel (1)
Oil (1)
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Like
“ “Thanks.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes (except Flowers)
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Neutral
“ “A gift? Hmm...”
If you click on George again after giving a Neutral gift, he will say:
“ “Do you want something in return?”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
All Fruit (except Fruit Tree Fruit & Salmonberry)
All Milk
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Spring
The Cave
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Tilling - Winter
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Tilling - Winter
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Dislike
“ “That's a terrible gift.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Clay)
All Flowers (except Poppy)
Salmonberry A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest. Foraging - Spring
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Hate
“ “This is probably the worst gift I've ever seen. Thanks a lot.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates
Clay Used in crafting and construction. Tilling
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - The Mines
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
The Zuzu City Express
Like
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
Wumbus
Dislike
It Howls In The Rain
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Mysterium
Love
Black Licorice
Stardrop Sorbet
Like
Fries
Nachos
Personal Pizza
Popcorn
Salmon Burger
Salted Peanuts
Sour Slimes
Truffle Popcorn
Dislike
Everything else
Heart Events
Anytime
At any friendship level greater than zero friendship points, you may receive a gift in the mail from George. The chance of receiving a gift in the mail increases as your friendship with George increases.
Details 
Three Hearts
After reaching 3 hearts with George, he will send the player a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Six Hearts
Enter George's house when he is home.
Details 
Seven Hearts
After reaching 7 hearts with George, he will send the player a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Quotes
Regular 
Events 

Quests
"Knee Therapy": George will send you a letter on the 25th of Summer requesting a Hot Pepper. The reward is 200g and 1 Friendship heart.
George may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
George is to be gifted the Advanced TV Remote in The Pirate's Wife quest.
Trivia
George will send you recipes for Fried Eel and Spicy Eel, which are ironically two of his wife's hated gifts.
When moving, George will make the footstep noise as if he is walking, despite being in a wheelchair.
Portraits
History
1.4: Fixed bug where all recipes would be sent at 3 friendship hearts.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Added winter portraits.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs