Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Ginger
This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality.
Information
Source
Foraging on Ginger Island
Tiger Slime
Season  All
XP 7 Foraging XP
Energy / Health
25
11
Sell Price 60g
Artisan Sell Prices
Base Artisan (+40%)
135g
170g
189g
238g
Ginger is a root found growing wild on Ginger Island. It must be harvested with a hoe. It can also be dropped by Tiger Slimes.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Recipes
2.1 Cooking
2.2 Crafting
3 Tailoring
4 Quests
5 Notes
6 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Harvey •  Leah •  Linus
Neutral  Abigail •  Alex •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Kent •  Lewis •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Robin •  Sandy
Dislike  Caroline •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Haley •  Jas •  Jodi •  Krobus •  Leo •  Pierre •  Sam •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Recipes
Cooking
Image Name Description Ingredients Energy / Health Buff(s) Buff Duration Recipe Source(s) Sell Price
Ginger Ale A zesty soda known for its soothing effect on the stomach.
Ginger (3)
Sugar (1)
63
28
Luck (+1)
5m
Dwarf Shop in Volcano Dungeon for 1,000g 200g
Crafting
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source(s) Sell Price
Warp Totem: Island Warp directly to Ginger Island. Consumed on use.
Hardwood (5)
Dragon Tooth (1)
Ginger (1)
Volcano Dwarf for 10,000g 20g
Tailoring
It is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Forager's Hat. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a yellow dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Three Ginger may be requested by Lionfish in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 3 to 5.
Caroline may request 100 Ginger in the "Island Ingredients" Special Order. The reward is gold equivalent to 50% of base crop price and the Solar Panel recipe.
Notes
Ginger and ginger ale are common remedies for nausea. Though it is not specified in the objects descriptions, eating Ginger or drinking Ginger Ale cures the Nauseated debuff. This is hinted at by Birdie, the pirate's widow who lives on Ginger Island.
History
1.5: Introduced.
1.6: Can now be made into Juice, and is no longer the only "Forage" item that can be pickled.
1.6.12: Harvesting Ginger now grants 7 Foraging XP.
Foraging
Basic Sap
Spring Common Mushroom • Daffodil • Dandelion • Leek • Morel • Salmonberry • Spring Onion • Wild Horseradish
Summer Fiddlehead Fern • Grape • Red Mushroom • Spice Berry • Sweet Pea
Fall Blackberry • Chanterelle • Common Mushroom • Hazelnut • Wild Plum
Winter Crocus • Crystal Fruit • Holly • Snow Yam • Winter Root
The Beach Clam • Cockle • Coral • Mussel • Nautilus Shell • Oyster • Rainbow Shell • Sea Urchin • Seaweed
The Mines Cave Carrot • Purple Mushroom • Red Mushroom
The Desert Cactus Fruit • Coconut
Skull Cavern Dinosaur Egg • Fiddlehead Fern
Ginger Island Ginger • Magma Cap
Category: Foraging