Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Goat
Happy adults provide goat milk every other day. A milk pail is required to harvest the milk. Lives in the barn.
Information
Building
Big Barn
Purchase Price 4,000g
Produce
Goat Milk
Large Goat Milk
The Goat is an animal that lives in a Big Barn. Goats can be purchased at Marnie's Ranch for 4,000g. Goats can become pregnant and give birth.
Produce
Main article: Animals#Produce
Goats who eat every day mature after 5 nights have passed. A mature and fed goat produces Goat Milk every 2 days. Once sufficient friendship and happiness are reached, they will produce Large Goat Milk. Goat Milk can be collected using a Milk Pail. Milking a goat by hand increases friendship by 5 points. Alternatively, an Auto-Grabber will automatically milk every Goat in a Barn.
Goat Milk can be placed in a Cheese Press to produce Goat Cheese, which sells for 400g or 600g depending on quality.
Image Name Description Sell Price
Goat Milk The milk of a goat.
225g
281g
337g
450g
Large Goat Milk A gallon of creamy goat's milk.
345g
431g
517g
690g
Reproduction
Goats, like cows, sheep, and pigs, have a low chance to reproduce. The more animals there are inside the same barn, the higher the chance an animal will give birth. When it occurs, the player will receive a notice at the bottom of the screen before the day starts, stating "During the night, [parent's name] gave birth to a baby goat." Other than this, there is no indication that a goat is pregnant.
Selling
Goats can be sold. The selling price is dependent on how many hearts the animal has (5,200g max).
To sell a coop or barn animal, right-click the animal after petting. The friendship/mood interface appears. Move the cursor over the gold coin button at the right to see how much you can sell the animal for. Click that button and the confirmation that follows to complete the sale.
Animals and Produce
Coop Chicken (Egg • Large Egg • Brown Egg • Large Brown Egg) • Dinosaur (Dinosaur Egg) • Duck (Duck Egg • Duck Feather) • Golden Chicken (Golden Egg) • Rabbit (Wool • Rabbit's Foot) • Void Chicken (Void Egg)
Barn Cow (Milk • Large Milk) • Goat (Goat Milk • Large Goat Milk) • Sheep (Wool) • Ostrich (Ostrich Egg) • Pig (Truffle)
Fish Pond Fish (Roe)
Slime Hutch Slimes (Slime • Slime Ball • Slime Egg)
Other Cat • Dog • Horse • Turtle
Category: Barn animals