Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Not to be confused with Gold Ore or Gold Bars.
Gold is the primary currency of Stardew Valley. The amount of gold a player has is displayed at the top right of the screen, directly below the time. All players start with 500g. "Total Earnings" and "Current Funds" can be viewed at any time on the Inventory screen of the pause menu.
Most shops accept Gold as payment for their goods and services. Exceptions include the Desert Trader, the Island Trader, the Raccoon Wife's Shop, the booths at the Desert Festival and Stardew Valley Fair, the Casino, and Qi's Walnut Room.
Contents
1 Earning Gold
2 Achievements
3 Tip
4 Trivia
5 History
Earning Gold
The primary method of earning gold is to collect items by farming, fishing, foraging, mining, or engaging in combat, then selling the items by placing them in the shipping box on the farm. Gold is earned after the player goes to sleep for the night, and the amounts for each item are displayed on a summary screen.
Alternatively, items can be sold to various merchants throughout Stardew Valley, and gold can be collected immediately. Each merchant will purchase only specific items that correspond to the type of items they sell: Pierre's General Store buys edibles, the Fish Shop buys Fish, the Blacksmith buys metal ores and gems, etc.
The player may also complete quests to earn gold. Quests are posted on the "Help Wanted" board outside of Pierre's General Store, on the "Special Orders" board south of the Mayor's Manor, or delivered directly to the player's mailbox on the farm. Upon completion of a quest, the player may earn gold by opening the Journal, selecting the completed quest, and clicking on the reward icon.
The player will also receive gold in the mail. The player's mother or father will send money after the player earns specific amounts of gold, Pierre will randomly send 'Cash-back Rewards Program' rebates, and Lewis will randomly send gold from the 'Stardew Valley Agricultural Fund' for being a member of the community.
The player can discard unwanted items using the Trash Can in their inventory. Normally, an item discarded in this way does not return any gold. However, by upgrading the Trash Can at the Blacksmith, the player can recover some of the item's value in gold.
If the player has the Parrot Egg trinket equipped, all monsters have a chance of dropping gold when slain.
Achievements
There are 5 Achievements directly related to earning gold.
Steam Icon In-Game Icon Achievement Description Unlocks
Greenhorn Earn 15,000g
Good Ol' Cap
Cowpoke Earn 50,000g
Lucky Bow
Homesteader Earn 250,000g
Cool Cap
Millionaire Earn 1,000,000g
Bowler Hat
Legend Earn 10,000,000g (Secret Achievement)
Sombrero
Tip
Whenever an item whose sell price is greater than 500g is taken into inventory, the popup box on the lower left of the screen will be shaded purple.
Trivia
There are 8 digits available to display current funds on the display at the upper right of the screen. If the player accumulates 100,000,000g or more in current funds, the display will "roll over" and subtract 100,000,001g from the total shown. The full amount of gold is still available for the player to spend, however.
Upon earning 27,000g the player will receive a letter in the mail from the Stardew Valley Tribune:
“ “Greetings, <player name>.
It is our pleasure to inform you that your farm will be featured in next week's "up & coming" column of the Stardew Valley Tribune! Congratulations. We're impressed with your quick progress.
-SVT”
History
1.6: Changed in-game gold display from "G" to "o" in Spanish. Added Parrot Egg.
Categories: GameplayAchievements