Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Gold Bar
A bar of pure gold.
Information
Source Crafting • Furnace • Tilling in The Mines • Monster drop
Sell Prices
Base Blacksmith (+50%)
250g
375g
Crafting
Equipment
Furnace
Processing Time
5h
Ingredients
Gold Ore (5)
Coal (1)
A Gold Bar is created by smelting 5 Gold Ore in a furnace with 1 coal for fuel, or by transmuting 2 Iron Bars into one Gold Bar. Smelting Gold Ore in a furnace takes 5 in-game hours. The "Transmute (Au)" recipe is earned at Mining Level 7.
A Gold Bar can be found (rarely) in the Garbage Can next to the Blacksmith, after the player has unlocked the Furnace blueprint. Five Gold Bars are the reward for completing the Enchanter's Bundle on the Bulletin Board. If Clint is your secret gift-giver at the Feast of the Winter Star, he may give you 5 Gold Bars.
Gold Bars are also dropped from Dust Sprites (0.1% chance), Squid Kids (5% chance), Shadow Brutes (1% chance), and Shadow Shaman (1% chance). They may be dug up in The Mines at floors 41-80 (0.1% chance).
Gold bars are used in a variety of crafting recipes and are used to upgrade tools to tier 4. One Gold Bar can be sold for 250g, or 375g with the Blacksmith Profession.
Contents
1 Tool Upgrades
2 Crafting
3 Gifting
4 Bundles
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 History
Tool Upgrades
Gold Bars are required for the third upgrade of tools.
Image Name Cost Ingredients
Gold Hoe 10,000g
Gold Bar (5)
Gold Pickaxe 10,000g
Gold Bar (5)
Gold Axe 10,000g
Gold Bar (5)
Gold Watering Can 10,000g
Gold Bar (5)
Gold Trash Can 5,000g
Gold Bar (5)
Gold Pan 10,000g
Gold Bar (5)
Crafting
Gold Bars are used to make the following items:
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Quality Sprinkler Waters the 8 adjacent tiles every morning.
Gold Bar (1)
Iron Bar (1)
Refined Quartz (1)
Farming Level 6
Iridium Sprinkler Waters the 24 adjacent tiles every morning.
Gold Bar (1)
Iridium Bar (1)
Battery Pack (1)
Farming Level 9
Oil Maker Makes gourmet truffle oil.
Gold Bar (1)
Slime (50)
Hardwood (20)
Farming Level 8
Ring of Yoba Occasionally shields the wearer from damage.
Gold Bar (5)
Iron Bar (5)
Diamond (1)
Combat Level 7
Worm Bin Produces bait on a regular basis. The worms are self-sufficient.
Gold Bar (1)
Hardwood (25)
Iron Bar (1)
Fiber (50)
Fishing Level 4
Crystalarium Insert a gem of your choice and it will grow copies.
Gold Bar (5)
Stone (99)
Iridium Bar (2)
Battery Pack (1)
Mining Level 9
Seed Maker Place crops inside to produce a varying amount of seeds. Doesn't work with fruit tree crops.
Gold Bar (1)
Coal (10)
Wood (25)
Farming Level 9
Treasure Hunter Fish don't escape while collecting treasures. Also slightly increases the chance to find treasures.
Gold Bar (2)
Fishing Level 7
Barbed Hook Makes your catch more secure, causing the "fishing bar" to cling to your catch. Works best on slow, weak fish.
Gold Bar (1)
Copper Bar (1)
Iron Bar (1)
Fishing Level 8
Gold Brazier Provides a moderate amount of light.
Gold Bar (1)
Coal (1)
Fiber (5)
Carpenter's Shop (1,000g)
Thorns Ring When enemies damage you, they will take damage themselves.
Gold Bar (1)
Bone Fragment (50)
Stone (50)
Combat Level 7
Solar Panel Slowly generates batteries when left in the sun.
Gold Bar (5)
Iron Bar (5)
Refined Quartz (10)
Caroline (Special Order)
Geode Crusher Breaks geodes open automatically.
Gold Bar (2)
Diamond (1)
Stone (50)
Clint (Special Order)
Mini-Obelisk Place two on the farm to warp between them.
Gold Bar (3)
Hardwood (30)
Solar Essence (20)
Wizard (Special Order)
Mini-Forge Now, you can use a dwarvish forge from the convenience of your home.
Dragon Tooth (5)
Iron Bar (10)
Gold Bar (10)
Iridium Bar (5)
Combat Mastery
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Clint •  Maru •  Willy
Like  Krobus
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Wizard
Hate  Sam
Bundles
A Gold Bar is used in the Blacksmith's Bundle in the Boiler Room.
Tailoring
A Gold Bar is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with Cloth in the feed to create a Gold Breastplate. It is a gold dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed. It can be placed in the yellow dye pot at Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane, for use in dyeing.
Secret 
Quests
The Gold Bar may be randomly requested during any season at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store for a reward of 750g and 150 Friendship points. A Gold Bar will never be requested until you have the Furnace blueprints.
Three Gold Bars may be requested by several fish in Fish Pond quests.
History
1.4: Changed Charcoal Kiln recipe from 1 Gold Bar to 2 Copper Bars. Gold Bar can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests.
1.5: Used as an ingredient to the Thorns Ring, Solar Panel, Geode Crusher, and Mini-Obelisk recipes.
1.6: Used as an ingredient to the Mini-Forge recipe. Willy now loves Gold Bar. Added Gold Pan upgrade.
Resources
Basic Battery Pack • Bone Fragment • Cinder Shard • Clay • Coal • Fiber • Hardwood • Moss • Stone • Wood
Ore Copper Ore • Iron Ore • Gold Ore • Iridium Ore • Radioactive Ore
Bars Copper Bar • Iron Bar • Gold Bar • Iridium Bar • Radioactive Bar • Refined Quartz
Categories: ResourcesCraftable items