Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Gold Ore
A precious ore that can be smelted into bars.
Information
Source Mining • Blacksmith • Fishing • Frozen Geode • Magma Geode • Omni Geode • Panning • Traveling Cart • Lava Eel Fish Pond
Sell Price 25g
Gold Ore is a resource obtained largely from Gold Nodes with a Pickaxe.
Contents
1 Locations
2 Smelting
3 Crafting
4 Gifting
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 History
Locations
Gold Nodes in the Mines at floors 80+
Gold Nodes in the Skull Cavern rarely at floors 60+ and more commonly at floors 80+
Nodes can spawn in the Quarry or in the quarry on the Hill-top and Four Corners Farm Maps.
Breaking boxes and barrels in the Mines.
Ghosts have a 20% chance of dropping 1-3 gold ore.
Fishing treasure chests.
Beachfront Artifact Spots.
Frozen Geodes, Magma Geodes, or Omni Geodes.
Panning
Traveling Cart for 100–1,000g.
Blacksmith for 400g each in year 1, 750g each in year 2+.
Lava Eel Fish Pond when population reaches 3 or more.
Smelting
Gold ore can be smelted in a Furnace to create a Gold Bar. The smelting requires 5 gold ore and 1 coal to begin and takes approximately 5 in-game hours to complete.
Crafting
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Mega Bomb Generates a powerful explosion. Use with extreme caution.
Gold Ore (4)
Solar Essence (1)
Void Essence (1)
Mining Level 8
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Neutral  Clint
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Hate  Sam
Tailoring
Gold Ore can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the dyeable Turtleneck Sweater. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a yellow dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Three Gold Ore may be requested by several fish in Fish Pond quests to increase the capacity of the pond from 5 to 7.
History
1.3.27: Increased price from 400g in year 1 to 750g in year 2+.
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests. Can be produced by Fish Ponds.
Resources
Basic Battery Pack • Bone Fragment • Cinder Shard • Clay • Coal • Fiber • Hardwood • Moss • Stone • Wood
Ore Copper Ore • Iron Ore • Gold Ore • Iridium Ore • Radioactive Ore
Bars Copper Bar • Iron Bar • Gold Bar • Iridium Bar • Radioactive Bar • Refined Quartz
Category: Resources