Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Golden Walnut
To the parrots of Ginger Island, this nut is the finest delicacy.
Information
Source Farming • Mining • Foraging • Combat • Fishing • Digging • Breaking Golden Coconuts
Location Ginger Island • Blacksmith
"Parrots" redirects here. For the parrot found in Pelican Town, see Emily's 4-heart event.
Golden Walnuts are the currency of the parrots on Ginger Island. The number of Golden Walnuts that a player has saved is displayed directly underneath the Player's name in the Skills Tab. Walnuts are shared amongst players in Multiplayer.
The player can find a total of 130 Golden Walnuts scattered on the island by exploration, killing monsters, farming, fishing, mining, breaking crates in the Volcano Dungeon, etc.
After finding 100 Golden Walnuts:
Qi's Walnut Room is unlocked.
Players may purchase the Queen Of Sauce Cookbook from the Bookseller.
The Raccoon may reward the player with a random unshipped item other than Roe and Artisan Goods starting with their sixth request.
Contents
1 Parrot Hints
2 Walnut Locations
3 Redeem Rewards
4 Golden Joja Parrot
5 Notes
6 Bugs
7 References
8 History
Parrot Hints
Interacting with the parrot in Leo's hut will cause it to squawk hints for more walnut locations. Hints update as the player progresses—quantities change to reflect only unfound walnuts, and hints to walnuts that have already been found no longer appear.
Fire mountain... Hidden down fire river...
Buried near bones...
Help man in tent...
[Quantity] buried in the north...
[Quantity] buried in the west...
[Quantity] buried in the south...
[Quantity] hidden in the north...
[Quantity] hidden in the west...
Bulging very close by...
Stripey slimes to the west...
[Quantity] stuck in shelly stones by shore...
[Quantity] grow on the farm to the west...
[Quantity] deep in the water...
[Quantity] hidden in fire mountain treasures...
[Quantity] encased in fire mountain gadgets...
[Quantity] nutty stone in fire mountain...
[Quantity] taken by monsters in fire mountain...
Hidden in the pages of the journal...
[Quantity] buried... Pirate's cove...
Bathing in the heart of the star...
Atop fire mountain...
Kribbit... Gurrrp...
Hidden shrine in rain forest...
Inside hard, gold thing...
Walnut Locations
All locations 
General (All) 
Island East 
Island West 

Island North 
Island South 
Redeem Rewards
Walnuts can be traded with parrots for various rewards.
116 walnuts are needed to unlock all of the rewards, allowing for the 14 extra walnuts to be exchanged for 28 Qi Gems.
Reward Description Location Cost
Ginger Island North Unlock access to the north side of the island. Leo's house 1
Ginger Island West Unlock access to the west side of the island. Ginger Island South 10
Ginger Island Farmhouse Unlock the Farmhouse on the west side of the island, which can be used to sleep in to pass the day without leaving the island. Ginger Island West 20
Farmhouse Mailbox Allow players to access their mail without leaving the island. Ginger Island Farmhouse 5
Farm Obelisk Allow players to teleport back to the farm, similar to a warp totem. Ginger Island Farmhouse 20
Island Dig Site Repair the bridge to access the island dig site. Ginger Island North 10
Island Trader Unlock the Island Trader shop. Ginger Island North 10
Volcano Bridge Unlock a permanent bridge into the volcano so that players no longer have to have their watering can to get in. Volcano Dungeon entrance 5
Volcano Exit Shortcut Unlock an escape shortcut from level 5 of the Volcano Dungeon, allowing quick access to Island North. Volcano Dungeon level 5 5
Island Resort Unlock a beach resort. NPCs from the town will occasionally come to visit the resort. This also unlocks Island Southeast and the Pirate Cove. Ginger Island South 20
Parrot Express Unlock a fast travel system to quickly get around the island. Ginger Island 10
Qi Gem (2)
Exchange remaining Walnuts for Qi Gems.
Only available after buying all other upgrades.
Qi's Walnut Room 1
Golden Joja Parrot
The Golden Joja Parrot
The Golden Joja Parrot can be paid gold to find all remaining Golden Walnuts the player has not found. It is located to the west of the volcano. It costs 10,000g per unfound nut. The player is warned that doing this will prevent the player from having the true Ginger Island Experience.
All remaining walnuts will be added after the player goes to sleep for the night.
Notes
The parrot in Leo's hut provides hints for 123 out of 130 walnut locations with the exception of:
1 on the southern bush in the Gem Birds shrine area
3 for placing a banana on the altar in the east, by the staircase to Leo's hut
up to 3 rewarded for winning the Darts Game.
If all of the walnuts associated with a hint are found on the same day that the hint was given, the parrot will remain silent for the rest of the day and will not give another hint until the next day.
When calculating Golden Walnuts needed to enter Qi's Walnut Room, the first Golden Walnut found is not counted, meaning the player must actually find 101 Golden Walnuts in total before unlocking the room.
Bugs
Occasionally, the game may miscount the number of Golden Walnuts obtained, leaving the count at 129/130, when all walnuts have actually been found. The workaround is to open a chat window (with ? or T on PC) and enter /recountnuts.
If the player has purchased all upgrades on Ginger Island for 116 Golden Walnuts, and has traded the rest for Qi Gems, they can use the chat window command /recountnuts to receive Golden Walnuts in the amount above 116 that they had earned before trading nuts for gems. This can be done infinitely, by trading all nuts for gems and then using the chat command.
Occasionally, the golden walnut north of the entrance to Qi’s Walnut Room may fly off screen when shaken (like a Garbage Can lid exploding, but without the sound) and not be counted as collected, making Perfection impossible. The only workaround is to ask the Golden Joja Parrot to find the walnut.
References
↑ See IslandLocation::getFish in the game code.
↑ See TerrainFeatures.HoeDirt::performUseAction in the game code. The Scythe is assigned harvesting method "1" and harvesting by hand is harvesting method "0".
↑ See GameLocation::breakStone in the game code. The mussel node is case 25.
↑ See IslandSouthEast::getFish in the game code.
History
1.5: Introduced.
1.6: Golden Joja Parrot added.
Category: Special items