Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Green Bean
A juicy little bean with a cool, crisp snap.
Information
Seed
Bean Starter
Growth Time 10 days
Season  Spring
XP 9 Farming XP
Energy / Health
25
11
35
15
45
20
65
29
Sell Prices
Base Tiller (+10%)
40g
50g
60g
80g
44g
55g
66g
88g
Artisan Sell Prices
Base Artisan (+40%)
90g
130g
126g
182g
The Green Bean is a vegetable crop that grows from Bean Starter after 10 days.
This crop uses a trellis, and continues to produce after maturity. Be aware, you cannot move onto a tile with a trellis, but you must be adjacent to a planted tile in order to harvest the plant. You must plan the layout of your plantings in order to guarantee access for harvesting.
Contents
1 Stages
2 Crop Growth Calendar
3 Gifting
4 Bundles
5 Recipes
6 Tailoring
7 Quests
8 History
Stages
You cannot walk through green beans at any stage of growth. You can walk through dead Green Bean plants.
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Stage 5 Harvest After-Harvest
1 Day 1 Day 1 Day 3 Days 4 Days Total: 10 Days Regrowth: 3 Days
Crop Growth Calendar
Base
Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun
Expand
Agriculturist and Speed-Gro Comparison
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Harvey •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Willy •  Wizard
Dislike  Abigail •  Haley •  Jas •  Sam •  Vincent
Bundles
Green Bean is used in the Spring Crops Bundle in the Pantry.
Five gold quality Green Beans may be an option in the remixed Quality Crops Bundle in the Pantry.
Recipes
Image Name Description Ingredients Energy / Health Buff(s) Buff Duration Recipe Source(s) Sell Price
Bean Hotpot It sure is healthy.
Green Bean (2)
125
56
Max Energy (+30)
Magnetism (+32)
7m
Clint (Mail - 7+ )
100g
Tailoring
Green Bean is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with Cloth in the feed to create a dyeable Shirt And Belt. It is a green dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed. It can be placed in the green dye pot at Emily's and Haley's house for use in dyeing.
Quests
The Green Bean may be randomly requested in Spring at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store for a reward of 120g and 150 Friendship points.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Iridium quality is now possible when using Deluxe Fertilizer. Is now an option in the remixed Quality Crops Bundle.
Crops
Spring Blue Jazz • Carrot • Cauliflower • Coffee Bean • Garlic • Green Bean • Kale • Parsnip • Potato • Rhubarb • Strawberry • Tulip • Unmilled Rice
Summer Blueberry • Coffee Bean • Corn • Hops • Hot Pepper • Melon • Poppy • Radish • Red Cabbage • Starfruit • Summer Spangle • Summer Squash • Sunflower • Tomato • Wheat
Fall Amaranth • Artichoke • Beet • Bok Choy • Broccoli • Corn • Cranberries • Eggplant • Fairy Rose • Grape • Pumpkin • Sunflower • Wheat • Yam
Winter Powdermelon
Special Ancient Fruit • Cactus Fruit • Pineapple • Qi Fruit • Sweet Gem Berry • Taro Root • Tea Leaves
Categories: Spring cropsVegetablesTrellis CropsMultiple harvest crops