Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Grub (dangerous)
Information
Spawns In: Dangerous Mines
Floors: 41-69
Killable: Yes
Base HP: 265
Base Damage: 12-13
Base Def: 0
Speed: 1
XP: 2
Variations:
Grub
Mutant Grub
Drops:
Ancient Seed (0.5%)
Bug Meat (60%)
Dwarf Scroll I (0.5%)
Dwarf Scroll IV (0.1%)
Rice Shoot (10%)
White Algae (2%)
If reached bottom of Mines:
Diamond (0.05%)
Prismatic Shard (0.05%)
Grubs (dangerous) are an enemy found in the Mines after activating the Shrine of Challenge or during the Danger In The Deep quest. 80 cave insects (any type) need to be killed for the Monster Eradication Goal at the Adventurer's Guild.
Behavior
Pupating Grub
Grubs appear in groups and attack on sight. Upon sustaining critical damage, they will flee and attempt to pupate. When pupating, a Grub turns blue and is immune to all damage. It will emerge from its blue cocoon as a Cave Fly (dangerous).
Strategy
Attempt to separate them from their groups to avoid being overrun.
If you find a single grub, simply attack it constantly and chase it down if it tries to escape. They do not charge you like Slimes do, making it impossible for them to hit you if you have a weapon with decent knockback.
If you encounter a group of grubs, use a weapon with medium or high knockback to push them all into a corner, that way none of them can escape. Just make sure to not let any escape from the corner, as fighting a flying insect and a group of grubs is quite dangerous, especially if there are a lot of grubs. Explosive ammo from your slingshot also works well.
History
1.5: Introduced.
1.6: Changed Monster Eradication Goal for cave insects from 125 to 80.
Monsters
Mines Bats • Bug • Cave Fly • Duggy • Dust Sprite • Ghost • Grub • Lava Crab • Metal Head • Rock Crab • Shadow Brute • Shadow Shaman • Skeleton • Slimes • Squid Kid • Stone Golem
Dangerous Mines Bat (dangerous) • Blue Squid • Bug (dangerous) • Carbon Ghost • Cave Fly (dangerous) • Duggy (dangerous) • Dust Sprite (dangerous) • Frost Bat (dangerous) • Grub (dangerous) • Haunted Skull (dangerous) • Lava Crab (dangerous) • Metal Head (dangerous) • Putrid Ghost • Rock Crab (dangerous) • Shadow Brute (dangerous) • Shadow Shaman (dangerous) • Shadow Sniper • Skeleton (dangerous) • Skeleton Mage • Slimes (dangerous) • Spider • Squid Kid (dangerous) • Stick Bug • Stone Golem (dangerous)
Quarry Mine Copper Slime • Haunted Skull • Iron Slime
Skull Cavern Armored Bug • Big Slime • Carbon Ghost • Iridium Bat • Iridium Crab • Lava Bat • Mummy • Pepper Rex • Purple Slime • Serpent
Dangerous Skull Cavern Armored Bug (dangerous) • Mummy (dangerous) • Royal Serpent • Slime (dangerous)
Bug Lair Mutant Fly • Mutant Grub
The Farm Iridium Golem • Truffle Crab • Wilderness Golem
Volcano Dungeon Dwarvish Sentry • False Magma Cap • Hot Head • Lava Lurk • Magma Duggy • Magma Sparker • Magma Sprite • Tiger Slime
Category: Monsters