Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Gus
Information
Birthday  Summer 8
Lives In Pelican Town
Address The Stardrop Saloon
Marriage No
Clinic Visit  Fall 4
Loved Gifts
Diamond
Escargot
Fish Taco
Orange
Tropical Curry
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Anytime
5.2 Three Hearts
5.3 Four Hearts
5.4 Five Hearts
5.5 Seven Hearts
6 Quotes
7 Quests
8 Portraits
9 History
“ “Pam and Clint come into the saloon almost every night. I'd probably go out of business if they stopped coming. So make sure you don't drive them away!”
— Gus
Gus is a villager who lives and works at the Stardrop Saloon in Pelican Town. He owns the establishment.
Schedule
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Gus may randomly spend the day there. (He will leave a cash box on the bar, so the player is still able to make purchases.) After leaving the Island at 6pm, Gus will tend bar until 12:30am, when he goes to bed. Gus never visits the Resort on Festival days or his checkup day at Harvey's Clinic.
Shown below are Gus' schedules prioritized highest to lowest. For example, if he is a vendor at the Desert Festival, that schedule overrides all others.
Expand
Spring 15 (Bus Service Restored)
Expand
Desert Festival (As Vendor)
Expand
Green Rain (Year 1)
Expand
Fall 4
Expand
Rain
Expand
Monday
Expand
Tuesday (Community Center Restored)
Expand
Sunday (Alex's 14 heart event seen)
Expand
Regular Schedule
Relationships
Gus employs Emily part-time to help at the saloon. Pam is also a frequent customer, and can often be seen chatting with Gus.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Gus up to two gifts per week (plus one on his birthday), which will raise or lower his friendship with you. Gifts on his birthday ( 8 Summer) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved or liked gifts, Gus responds
“ “A birthday gift? That's very kind of you! I love it.”
“ “You remembered my birthday! Thank you. This is great.”
For neutral gifts, Gus responds
“ “Oh, a birthday gift! Thank you.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Gus responds
“ “Oh... It's for my birthday? ... Thanks.”
Love
“ “You're giving this... to me? I'm speechless.”
Escargot, Fish Taco, or Tropical Curry
“ “*sniff*... Ah. Exquisite cuisine. You know what I like, (Name).”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Oh wow, thank you! I'm tempted to drink all of it, but I'm going to save some for the saloon. I bet I could make an interesting cocktail with this!”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Diamond A rare and valuable gem. Mining
Escargot Butter-soaked snails cooked to perfection. Cooking
Snail (1)
Garlic (1)
Fish Taco It smells delicious. Cooking
Tuna (1)
Tortilla (1)
Red Cabbage (1)
Mayonnaise (1)
Orange Juicy, tangy, and bursting with sweet summer aroma. Fruit Trees
Tropical Curry An exotic, fragrant curry served in a pineapple bowl. Cooking
Coconut (1)
Pineapple (1)
Hot Pepper (1)
Like
“ “Oh goodness! Are you sure?”
Any Cooked Dish
“ “*sniff*... Ah. Exquisite cuisine. You know what I like, (Name).”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes (except Coleslaw)
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Truffle A gourmet type of mushroom with a unique taste. Pigs, Truffle Crab
Neutral
“ “Oh, that's sweet. Thank you.”
Bread or Fried Egg
“ “*sniff*... Ah. Exquisite cuisine. You know what I like, (Name).”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals (except Truffle)
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
All Fruit (except Fruit Tree Fruit & Salmonberry)
All Milk
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Dislike
“ “No, no, no...”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes
Salmonberry A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest. Foraging - Spring
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Hate
“ “This is absolute junk. I'm offended.”
Coleslaw, Seafoam Pudding, or Strange Bun
“ “*sniff*... Ah. Exquisite cuisine. You know what I like, (Name).”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Hates
Coleslaw It's light, fresh and very healthy. Cooking
Red Cabbage (1)
Vinegar (1)
Mayonnaise (1)
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - The Mines
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
Wumbus
Like
It Howls In The Rain
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
The Zuzu City Express
Dislike
Mysterium
Love
Cappuccino Mousse Cake
Panzanella Salad
Stardrop Sorbet
Truffle Popcorn
Like
Chocolate Popcorn
Fries
Ice Cream Sandwich
Nachos
Personal Pizza
Popcorn
Salmon Burger
Salted Peanuts
Star Cookie
Dislike
Everything else
Heart Events
Anytime
At any friendship level greater than zero friendship points, you may receive a gift in the mail from Gus. The chance of receiving a gift in the mail increases as your friendship with Gus increases.
Expand
Details 
Three Hearts
After reaching three hearts with Gus, he will send you a recipe in the mail.
Expand
Details 
Four Hearts
Enter the Saloon during open hours, when Gus is inside.
Note: Only occurs if your friendship with Pam is at 2 hearts or more.
Expand
Details 
Five Hearts
Exit the farmhouse on a non-rainy day between 6am and 11:30am.
Expand
Details 
Seven Hearts
After reaching seven hearts with Gus, he will send you a recipe in the mail.
Expand
Details 
Quotes
Expand
Regular 
Expand
Events 


Quests
"Wanted: Lobster": Gus will send you a letter on the 6th of Fall, Year 2, requesting a Lobster. The reward offered in the letter is 800g but he actually gives 500g and 1 Friendship heart upon completion.
"Fish Stew": Gus will send you a letter on the 26th of Winter requesting an Albacore. The reward is 400g and 1 Friendship heart.
"Exotic Spirits": Gus will send you a letter on the 19th of Winter, Year 2, requesting a Coconut. The reward is 600g and 1 Friendship heart.
Gus may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
Gus is to be gifted the Gourmet Tomato Salt in The Pirate's Wife quest.
"Gus' Famous Omelet": On the Special Orders board in front of the Mayor's Manor, Gus may randomly request that the player collect and deliver 24 Eggs to the fridge in the Stardrop Saloon. The reward is 3,000g and a Mini-Fridge.
Portraits
History
1.4: Fixed bug where all recipes would be sent at 3 friendship hearts. Added 5-heart event.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Added winter portraits. Now likes Truffles.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs