Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Haley
Information
Birthday  Spring 14
Lives In Pelican Town
Address 2 Willow Lane
Family
Emily (Sister)
Marriage Yes
Clinic Visit  Winter 9
Loved Gifts
Coconut
Fruit Salad
Pink Cake
Sunflower
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Two Hearts
5.2 Four Hearts
5.3 Six Hearts
5.4 Eight Hearts
5.5 Ten Hearts
5.6 Group Ten-Heart Event
5.7 Fourteen Hearts
6 Marriage
7 Quotes
8 Questions
9 Quests
10 Portraits
11 Timeline
12 Trivia
13 History
“ “Being wealthy and popular throughout high school has made Haley a little conceited and self-centered. She has a tendency to judge people for superficial reasons. But is it too late for her to discover a deeper meaning to life? Is there a fun, open-minded young woman hidden within that candy-coated shell?”
— Dev Update #12
Haley is a villager who lives in Pelican Town. She's one of the twelve characters available to marry.
Schedule
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Haley may randomly spend the day there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Haley will immediately go home to bed. Haley never visits the Resort on Festival days or her checkup day at Harvey's Clinic.
Shown below are Haley's schedules prioritized highest to lowest within each season. For example, if it is raining, that schedule overrides all others below it.
Expand
 Spring
Expand
 Summer
Expand
 Fall
Expand
 Winter
Expand
 Marriage
Relationships
Haley lives with her sister Emily, and together they care for their parents' home, who have been traveling the world for the past two years.
Haley is friends with Alex, and will dance with him at the Flower Dance if neither of them are dancing with the player.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Haley up to two gifts per week (plus one on her birthday), which will raise or lower her friendship with you. Gifts on her birthday ( 14 Spring) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved gifts, Haley responds
“ “*gasp*... You got this for me? Wow, <player>, this is the best birthday gift ever!”
For liked gifts, Haley responds
“ “Awwwww, you got me a birthday gift? Well, I really like it!”
For neutral gifts, Haley responds
“ “For my birthday? Thanks.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Haley responds
“ “Gross! You got me this on my birthday? What's wrong with you!”
Love
“ “Oh my god, this is my favorite thing!”
Coconut
“ “ Is that... coconut? I love this!
Mmm.... coconuts remind me of warm, sunny days at the beach. When I hold one, I feel like I'm there... even when it's raining.”
Stardrop Tea
“ “ For me? Ooooh... I can't decide if I should drink it, or use it as shampoo...”
Sunflower
“ “ Wow, they're beautiful! These are my absolute favorite.”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves (except Prismatic Shard)
Coconut A seed of the coconut palm. It has many culinary uses. Foraging - Desert
Fruit Salad A delicious combination of summer fruits. Cooking
Blueberry (1)
Melon (1)
Apricot (1)
Pink Cake There's little heart candies on top. Cooking
Melon (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Sugar (1)
Egg (1)
Sunflower A common misconception is that the flower turns so it's always facing the sun. Farming
Like
“ “*gasp*...for me? Thank you!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes (except Vegetables)
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging in Spring
Neutral
“ “Thank you. I love presents.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals (except Mystic Syrup)
Dislike
“ “Ugh...that's such a stupid gift.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Clay & Fish)
All Eggs*
All Fruit (except Coconut)
All Milk
All Vegetables (except Hops, Tea Leaves, & Wheat)
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Mystic Syrup A very rare syrup that is said to have magic properties. Tapper
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - Mines
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Hate
“ “Gross!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates
All Fish
Clay Used in crafting and construction. Tilling
Prismatic Shard A very rare and powerful substance with unknown origins. Mining
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
N/A
Like
It Howls In The Rain
Mysterium
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Dislike
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Wumbus
Love
Cappuccino Mousse Cake
Stardrop Sorbet
Dislike
Black Licorice
Fries
Joja Cola
JojaCorn
Nachos
Personal Pizza
Popcorn
Salted Peanuts
Truffle Popcorn
Like
Everything else
Heart Events
Two Hearts
Enter Haley and Emily's house when they're both there.
Expand
Details 
Four Hearts
Enter Haley's house when she's there.
Expand
Details 
Six Hearts
Go to the beach between 10 AM and 4 PM during any season except Winter.
Expand
Details 
Eight Hearts
On a sunny day during any season except Winter, enter Cindersap Forest between 10 AM and 4 PM.
Expand
Details 






Ten Hearts
Enter Haley's house when she's there.
Expand
Details 
Group Ten-Heart Event
Since her ten-heart event also triggers at her home, the two events will happen together.
If the player is unmarried and has given a bouquet to all available bachelorettes, raised friendship with each bachelorette to 10 hearts, and seen each bachelorette's 10-heart event, then entering Haley/Emily's House will trigger a cutscene. If Haley is the final bachelorette you share a Ten-Heart Event with, the Group Ten-Heart Event will be unavoidable as it is triggered immediately afterwards.
Expand
Details 
This event will trigger only one time per save file. This event will not trigger if you are married or have given a Wilted Bouquet or Mermaid's Pendant to one of the marriage candidates.
Fourteen Hearts
Part 1: Enter town between 8am and 3pm on a day that's not raining.
Part 2: At least one day later, enter the Farm House between 6:20am and 5pm.
Part 3: At least one day later, enter Pelican Town with a Chocolate Cake in inventory between 6am and 3pm on a day that's not raining.
Expand
Details 

Marriage
Main article: Marriage
Once married, Haley will move into the farmhouse. Like other marriage candidates, she will add her own room to the right of the bedroom. She'll also set up a small garden behind the farmhouse where she'll sometimes go to take pictures.
On rainy mornings, Haley may offer you something sweet for breakfast: Cookie, Blueberry Tart, Pancakes, Poppyseed Muffin, or Maple Bar. On mornings when Haley stays inside the farmhouse all day, she may offer you Fried Egg, Omelet, Hashbrowns, Pancakes, or Bread for breakfast. On rainy nights she may offer you dinner: Chowder, Eggplant Parmesan, Bean Hotpot, or Parsnip Soup.
Haley's room
Haley and her camera
Quotes
Expand
Regular 
Expand
Events 


Expand
After Marriage 
Questions
Summer, Saturday
“ “Farming sounds sooo boring... What do you even do all day?”
Care for plants (+10 friendship.)
Haley responds: "Hmm... sounds like a lot of work."
Explore the caves (+10 friendship.)
Haley responds: "Hmm... sounds like a lot of work."
Snoop around in your room (-10 friendship.)
Haley responds: "What?! You'd better not be doing that!"
Dig for treasure (+10 friendship.)
Haley responds: "Hmm...sounds like a lot of work."
Fall, Saturday
“ “It's too cold to go to the beach anymore. *sigh*...what do you think I should do today?”
Watercolor painting (+10 friendship.)
Haley responds: "Hmm... That's a pretty good idea, actually."
Relax and read a magazine (+20 friendship.)
Haley responds: "Hmm... That's a pretty good idea, actually."
Stop being a selfish crybaby (-30 friendship.)
Haley responds: "Get away from me, you stupid jerk!"
Quests
Haley may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
Portraits
Timeline
Haley's look evolved over the years the game was in development. Here's a timeline showing how ConcernedApe's art and Haley's style changed over the years before the game was launched.
Trivia
Even though Haley's ten heart scene is all about her dark room, a new dark room is not included in her added room after marriage.
Screenshot from Dev Update 13 referencing peppermint coffee
In the "pink cake" episode of "The Queen of Sauce" (the 21st of Summer, Year 2), The Queen says, "A viewer from Pelican Town wrote to me recently... let's see... Her name's Haley. She wrote, 'I tried your pink cake last time I was in Zuzu City and I fell in love with it. Could you share the recipe on your next episode?'. Well, why not? It's a marvelous cake. And you'll never guess the secret ingredient... melon!"
On Wednesdays in Winter, Haley may say "I wish someone would bring me a peppermint coffee. Don't even bother, I know you won't be able to make one." This may lead players to believe that Peppermint Coffee is available, and is one of Haley's loved or liked gifts. In fact, Peppermint Coffee cannot be crafted, cooked, or brewed, and is not available in-game anywhere. In early game development, Haley would say "The only thing I like about winter is peppermint coffee... hey, are you even listening?"
In the 8-heart event, if the player is wearing a Prismatic clothing item, it can be seen animated on the pictures, even though pictures are normally static.
In the 8-heart event, Haley's outfit changes in the photographs to her pre-release outfit. For some reason the sprites were never updated to her final design.
In a note on the tabletop next to the fridge there is a letter to Haley and Emily from their parents saying "We just left the Fern Islands last night, after staying for two months."
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Added photo area behind farmhouse if married.
1.3.27: Added group 10-heart event.
1.4: Added 14 heart event.
1.5: Added beach portraits.
1.6: Added winter portraits, more beach portraits, and more regular portraits. Added Haley Portrait.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: Marriage candidates