Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Hardwood
A special kind of wood with superior strength and beauty.
Information
Source Large Stump • Large Log • Mahogany Tree • Mystic Tree • Mystery Box • Woodskip Fish Pond • Bookseller
Sell Price 15g
Hardwood is a resource. It is obtained by chopping down a Mahogany Tree or a Mystic Tree with any axe, a Large Stump with a Copper Axe or better, or a Large Log with a Steel Axe or better.
Six Large Stumps respawn daily in the Secret Woods, making it possible to obtain 12 Hardwood per day. Eight Large Stumps respawn daily on the left side of the Forest Farm Map, and one Large Stump respawns daily in the top left corner of the Four Corners Farm Map. These yield an additional 16 and 2 Hardwood per day, respectively.
On Ginger Island, there are wild Mahogany Trees that will regrow after being chopped for Hardwood. Hardwood is also readily available from various trees, stumps, and logs (using the appropriate axes) on Floors 41-69 of the Dangerous Mines. All trees have a chance of dropping Hardwood with the Lumberjack Profession; this can be done with any axe or any bombs.
Hardwood can also be received as loot by breaking barrels and boxes in the Mines or Skull Cavern. Robin may gift the player 25 Hardwood at the Feast of the Winter Star. It can also be gifted by a pet dog with max friendship. A Woodskip Fish Pond may produce 5 Hardwood when the population of the pond reaches 6. Ten Hardwood may be received from opening a Mystery Box. Up to 100 Hardwood can be purchased from Leah's shop at the Desert Festival for 3 Calico Eggs each. The Bookseller trades 20 Hardwood for 1 Woody's Secret, provided the player has already obtained the power from that book.
Contents
1 Crafting
2 Buildings
3 Gifting
4 Bundles
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 Notes
8 History
Crafting
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Cheese Press Turns milk into cheese.
Hardwood (10)
Wood (45)
Stone (45)
Copper Bar (1)
Farming Level 6
Oil Maker Makes gourmet truffle oil.
Hardwood (20)
Slime (50)
Gold Bar (1)
Farming Level 8
Hardwood Fence The most durable type of fence.
Hardwood (1)
Farming Level 6
Worm Bin Produces bait on a regular basis. The worms are self-sufficient.
Hardwood (15)
Gold Bar (1)
Iron Bar (1)
Fiber (50)
Fishing Level 4
Cork Bobber Slightly increases the size of your "fishing bar".
Hardwood (5)
Wood (10)
Slime (10)
Fishing Level 7
Mushroom Log Grows mushrooms every so often. The more wild trees are nearby, the better it works.
Hardwood (10)
Moss (10)
Foraging Level 4
Warp Totem: Beach Warp directly to the beach. Consumed on use.
Hardwood (1)
Coral (2)
Fiber (10)
Foraging Level 6
Warp Totem: Mountains Warp directly to the mountains. Consumed on use.
Hardwood (1)
Iron Bar (1)
Stone (25)
Foraging Level 7
Warp Totem: Farm Warp directly to your house. Consumed on use.
Hardwood (1)
Honey (1)
Fiber (20)
Foraging Level 8
Warp Totem: Desert Warp directly to Calico Desert. Consumed on use.
Hardwood (2)
Coconut (1)
Iridium Ore (4)
Desert Trader for Iridium Bar (10)
Warp Totem: Island Warp directly to Ginger Island. Consumed on use.
Hardwood (5)
Dragon Tooth (1)
Ginger (1)
Volcano Shop (10,000g)
Rain Totem Activate to greatly increase the chance for rain tomorrow. Consumed on use.
Hardwood (1)
Truffle Oil (1)
Pine Tar (5)
Foraging Level 9
Treasure Totem Use on diggable terrain to summon a ring of treasure spots.
Hardwood (5)
Mystic Syrup (1)
Moss (10)
Foraging Mastery
Stump Brazier Provides a moderate amount of light.
Hardwood (5)
Coal (1)
Carpenter's Shop (800g)
Carved Brazier Provides a moderate amount of light.
Hardwood (10)
Coal (1)
Carpenter's Shop (2,000g)
Cask Use in the cellar to age products like wine and cheese.
Hardwood (1)
Wood (20)
Farmhouse cellar upgrade
Ostrich Incubator Hatches ostrich eggs into baby ostriches. Place in a barn.
Hardwood (50)
Bone Fragment (50)
Cinder Shard (20)
Professor Snail after completing his collections and surveys
Heavy Tapper Place on a maple, oak, or pine tree and wait for the reservoir to fill with product! Works twice as fast as a normal tapper.
Hardwood (30)
Radioactive Bar (1)
Mr. Qi ( 20)
Mini-Obelisk Place two on the farm to warp between them.
Hardwood (30)
Solar Essence (20)
Gold Bar (3)
Wizard (Special Order)
Hopper Items placed inside will automatically be loaded into the machine in front of it.
Hardwood (10)
Iridium Bar (1)
Radioactive Bar (1)
Mr. Qi ( 50)
Fish Smoker Place fish inside with a piece of coal to create smoked fish, which is worth double. The quality of the fish is preserved.
Hardwood (10)
Sea Jelly (1)
River Jelly (1)
Cave Jelly (1)
Fish Shop (10,000g)
Tent Kit Use this to deploy a one-time-use tent for sleeping. Can only be used outdoors.
Hardwood (10)
Fiber (25)
Cloth (1)
Foraging Level 8
Buildings
Image Name Description Cost
Farmhouse Upgrade 2 Adds two new rooms, one empty, and one with a crib and two single beds, thus allowing you to have children. Kitchen and bedroom are larger. 65,000g
Hardwood (100)
Stable Allows you to keep and ride a horse. Horse included. 10,000g
Hardwood (100)
Iron Bar (5)
Pet Bowl Provides a dedicated home for one pet. 5,000g
Hardwood (25)
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Robin
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Ten Hardwood are required for the Construction Bundle in the Crafts Room.
Tailoring
Hardwood is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with Cloth in the feed to create a Shirt. It is a brown dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed. It can be placed in the orange dye pot at Emily's and Haley's house for use in dyeing.
Quests
Robin requests 10 Hardwood by mail on the 21st of Winter in the "Robin's Request" Quest. The reward is 500g and 1 Friendship heart.
Robin requests 80 Hardwood in the "Robin's Project" Special Order. The reward is 2,000g and a Deluxe Red Double Bed.
Willy's Boat needs 200 Hardwood to repair the boat's outer hull.
10 Hardwood are requested by Woodskip in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 1 to 3.
5 Hardwood may be requested by Crayfish, Periwinkle, or Snail in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 5 to 7.
100 Hardwood is needed to repair the Giant Stump in "The Giant Stump" quest.
Notes
A Wood Chipper can be used to convert Hardwood into Wood, Maple Syrup, Oak Resin or Pine Tar.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. The Forester Profession no longer increases the sale price of Hardwood. Used as an ingredient to the Warp Totem: Desert recipe. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests. Can be produced by Fish Ponds.
1.5: Can now be obtained by chopping down mahogany trees. Needed in Special Order "Robin's Project" and repairing Willy's Boat. Used as an ingredient in the Warp Totem: Island, Ostrich Incubator, Heavy Tapper, Mini-Obelisk, and Hopper recipes. No longer used as an ingredient to the Skull Brazier recipe.
1.6: Can now be obtained by chopping down Mystic Trees, trading with the Bookseller, and opening Mystery Boxes. Used as an ingredient in the Fish Smoker, Mushroom Log, Tent Kit, and Treasure Totem recipes. Can now be purchased at Desert Festival. Can now be gifted by a pet dog with max friendship.
1.6.4: Can now be added to Fish Tanks as decoration.
Resources
Basic Battery Pack • Bone Fragment • Cinder Shard • Clay • Coal • Fiber • Hardwood • Moss • Stone • Wood
Ore Copper Ore • Iron Ore • Gold Ore • Iridium Ore • Radioactive Ore
Bars Copper Bar • Iron Bar • Gold Bar • Iridium Bar • Radioactive Bar • Refined Quartz
Category: Resources