Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Harvey
Information
Birthday  Winter 14
Lives In Pelican Town
Address Medical Clinic
Marriage Yes
Loved Gifts
Coffee
Pickles
Super Meal
Truffle Oil
Wine
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Two Hearts
5.2 Four Hearts
5.3 Six Hearts
5.4 Eight Hearts
5.5 Ten Hearts
5.6 Group Ten-Heart Event
5.7 Fourteen Hearts
6 Marriage
7 Quotes
8 Quests
9 Portraits
10 Timeline
11 Trivia
12 History
“ “Harvey is the town doctor. He’s a little old for a bachelor, but he has a kind heart and a respected position in the community. He lives in a small apartment above the medical clinic, but spends most of his time working. You can sense a sadness about him, as if there’s something he’s not telling you…”
— Dev Update #12
Harvey is a villager who lives in Pelican Town. He runs the town's medical clinic and is passionate about the health of the townsfolk. He's one of the twelve characters available to marry.
Schedule
On Tuesdays and Thursdays Harvey gives villagers their annual or quarterly checkups. On most other days he spends the morning manning the counter at the clinic, and the afternoon taking exercise around town.
On rainy days, Harvey leaves the clinic and walks upstairs to his room at 12pm, regardless of whether or not there are patients in the clinic. Later, he stops by the Stardrop Saloon.
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Harvey may randomly spend the day there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Harvey will immediately go home to bed. Harvey never visits the Resort on Tuesdays, Thursdays, or Festival days.
Shown below are Harvey's schedules prioritized highest to lowest within each season. For example, if it is raining, that schedule overrides all others below it.
 Spring
 Summer
 Fall
 Winter
 Marriage
Relationships
Harvey works with Maru at the clinic, and can be seen standing with her at the Luau.
Harvey will dance with Maru at the Flower Dance if neither of them are dancing with the player.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Harvey up to two gifts per week (plus one on his birthday), which will raise or lower his friendship with you. Gifts on his birthday ( 14 Winter) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved, liked, or neutral gifts, Harvey responds
“ “Oh! Thank you very much! I didn't expect anyone to know it was my birthday today.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Harvey responds
“ “Oh! It's a... well, it's something. I didn't expect anyone to know it was my birthday today.”
Love
“ “It's for me? This is my favorite stuff! It's like you read my mind.”
Stardrop Tea
“ “You're giving me this? I'm honored. Thank you!”
Truffle Oil
“ “It's for me? Thank you! This will be fantastic drizzled on some pasta.”
Wine
“ “For me? What a gift! This looks fantastic!
You know, on a physiological level, I wouldn't advise the consumption of alcohol...
But there's no denying the benefit of kicking back and enjoying a glass of fine Stardew Valley wine!”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Coffee It smells delicious. This is sure to give you a boost. Keg, The Stardrop Saloon
Coffee Bean (5)
Pickles A jar of your home-made pickles. Preserves Jar Any vegetable or Ginger (1)
Super Meal It's a really energizing meal. Cooking
Bok Choy (1)
Cranberries (1)
Artichoke (1)
Truffle Oil A gourmet cooking ingredient. Oil Maker
Truffle (1)
Wine Drink in moderation. Keg Any fruit (1)
Like
“ “That's such a nice gift. Thank you!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes (except Cheese, Goat Cheese, Rainbow Shell, and the following cooked dishes: Blueberry Tart, Chocolate Cake, Cookie, Cranberry Sauce, Fried Mushroom, Glazed Yams, Hashbrowns, Ice Cream, Pancakes, Pink Cake, Pizza, Rhubarb Pie, & Rice Pudding)
All Fruit (except Salmonberry & Spice Berry)
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Duck Egg It's still warm. Duck
Duck Feather It's so colorful. Duck
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Goat Milk The milk of a goat. Goat
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Large Goat Milk A gallon of creamy goat's milk. Goat
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - The Mines
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Tilling - Winter
Spring Onion These grow wild during the spring. Foraging - Spring
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Tilling - Winter
Neutral
“ “Thanks. That's very kind of you.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals (except Bread, Coral, Duck Feather, & Nautilus Shell)
All Eggs (except Duck Egg & Void Egg)*
Large Milk A large jug of cow's milk. Cow
Milk A jug of cow's milk. Cow
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Dislike
“ “Hmm... Are you sure this is healthy?”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Dislikes (except Spring Onion)
Blueberry Tart It's subtle and refreshing. Cooking
Blueberry (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Sugar (1)
Egg (1)
Bread A crusty baguette. Cooking
Wheat Flour (1)
Cheese It's your basic cheese. Cheese Press
Milk (1)
Chocolate Cake Rich and moist with a thick fudge icing. Cooking
Wheat Flour (1)
Sugar (1)
Egg (1)
Cookie Very chewy. Cooking
Wheat Flour (1)
Sugar (1)
Egg (1)
Cranberry Sauce A festive treat. Cooking
Cranberries (1)
Sugar (1)
Fried Mushroom Earthy and aromatic. Cooking
Common Mushroom (1)
Morel (1)
Oil (1)
Glazed Yams Sweet and satisfying... The sugar gives it a hint of caramel. Cooking
Yam (1)
Sugar (1)
Goat Cheese Soft cheese made from goat's milk. Cheese Press
Goat Milk (1)
Hashbrowns Crispy and golden-brown! Cooking
Potato (1)
Oil (1)
Ice Cream It's hard to find someone who doesn't like this. Cooking
Milk (1)
Sugar (1)
Pancakes A double stack of fluffy, soft pancakes. Cooking
Wheat Flour (1)
Egg (1)
Pink Cake There's little heart candies on top. Cooking
Melon (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Sugar (1)
Egg (1)
Pizza It's popular for all the right reasons. Cooking
Wheat Flour (1)
Tomato (1)
Cheese (1)
Rhubarb Pie Mmm, tangy and sweet! Cooking
Rhubarb (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Sugar (1)
Rice Pudding It's creamy, sweet, and fun to eat. Cooking
Milk (1)
Sugar (1)
Rice (1)
Hate
“ “...I think I'm allergic to this.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates
Coral A colony of tiny creatures that clump together to form beautiful structures. Foraging - The Beach
Nautilus Shell An ancient shell. Foraging - The Beach
Rainbow Shell It's a very beautiful shell. Foraging - The Beach
Salmonberry A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest. Foraging - Spring
Spice Berry It fills the air with a pungent aroma. Foraging - Summer
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Like
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
Wumbus
Dislike
It Howls In The Rain
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Mysterium
Love
Apple Slices
Jasmine Tea
Stardrop Sorbet
Like
Cappuccino Mousse Cake
Hummus Snack Pack
Kale Smoothie
Panzanella Salad
Salmon Burger
Sour Slimes
Truffle Popcorn
Dislike
Everything else
Heart Events
Two Hearts
Enter George's house while George is there.
Details 
Four Hearts
Enter the clinic when Harvey is there.
Details 
Six Hearts
Enter the general store between 11am and 3pm.
Details 
Eight Hearts
Enter the clinic.
Details 
Ten Hearts
Harvey sends you a letter asking to meet at the railroad tracks. Go there between 9am and 5pm.
Details 
Group Ten-Heart Event
If the player is unmarried and has given a bouquet to all available bachelors, raised friendship with each bachelor to 10 hearts, and seen each bachelor's 10-heart event, then entering The Stardrop Saloon will trigger a cutscene. If Alex is the final bachelor you share a Ten-Heart Event with, the Group Ten-Heart Event will be unavoidable as it is triggered immediately afterwards.
Details 
This event will trigger only one time per save file. This event will not trigger if you are married or have given a Wilted Bouquet or Mermaid's Pendant to one of the marriage candidates.
Fourteen Hearts
Enter an upgraded farm house (needs to be upgraded at least twice) between 8pm and midnight.
Details 
Marriage
Main article: Marriage
Once married, Harvey will move into the farmhouse. Like other marriage candidates, he will add his own room to the right of the bedroom. He'll also set up a small garden behind the farmhouse where he'll sometimes go to read. He will continue to work at the clinic and travel to town to work there on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
On mornings when Harvey stays inside the farmhouse all day, he may offer you Complete Breakfast. On rainy nights he may offer you dinner: Salmon Dinner, Crispy Bass, Fried Eel, Carp Surprise, or Vegetable Medley.
Marriage ceremony
Harvey's room
Harvey's garden
Quotes
Regular 
Events 
After Marriage 
Quests
Harvey may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
Portraits
Timeline
Harvey's look evolved over the years the game was in development. Here's a timeline showing how ConcernedApe's art and Harvey's style changed over the years before the game was launched.
Trivia
Harvey's coordinates
During the eight-heart event in his room, he mentions that his coordinates are 52 North, 43.5 East. In the real world, this would put his location in southwest Russia, between Ukraine and Kazakhstan.
When married to the player, he may admit a fondness for jazz music, as he listens to it when finalizing his medical reports.
Despite telling others to eat healthily, his fridge is filled with convenience food and his microwave oven is well-used.
Inside the clinic, you can find several plaques on the wall. One states that the clinic is licensed by the Ferngill Republic Health Authority. Another is an advertisement for proper sneeze etiquette. A third in the back is an advertisement for a fictional drug Pravoloxinone which has the side-effect of "Complete disintegration of one or more bones" for 1 in 500 patients. Yet another near the back right of the clinic is described as a "The sign of the vessel", meant to comfort any patients believing in Yoba.
Harvey's radio has a tape inside of it named "Anthology of Classic Jazz", and his TV is set to the history station.
In the left-most corner of Harvey's apartment, there's a poster stated to be a "comparison between fighter planes of the Ferngill Republic and the Gotoro Empire".
In Secret Note #7, it is confirmed that he is one of three 'older bachelors' in Pelican Town.
Despite loving Coffee, he only likes the Triple Shot Espresso.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Added reading garden area behind farmhouse if married.
1.3.27: Added group 10-heart event.
1.4: Added 14 heart event. Now goes to the Museum on Saturdays. Now dislikes many cooked dishes. Fixed bug where viewing the 10-heart event while a train passed would soft-lock the game. Now goes to the Stardrop Saloon at night.
1.5: Added beach portraits.
1.6: Added winter portraits and more beach portraits. Added Harvey Portrait. Saturday Fall dialogue changed from "Farmer's Brunch" to "Farmer's Lunch".
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: Marriage candidates