Jump to navigation
Jump to search
The hat shop in fall.
Hats are cosmetic clothing items that alter the appearance of the player but otherwise have no effect.
Hats cannot be sold through the Shipping Bin, to the Hat Mouse, or to any store/shop in the game.
Contents
1 Obtaining hats
2 Secrets
3 Notes
4 History
Obtaining hats
The day after earning their first Achievement, players will receive a letter from the mouse in the Abandoned House alerting them that hats can now be purchased there. Most Achievements unlock a new hat for sale.
A few hats can only be obtained at certain festivals, the Casino, the Adventurer's Guild, or in treasure rooms in the Skull Cavern.
Many hats can also be tailored at the sewing machine in Emily's house or the Sewing Machine received as a reward for the "Rock Rejuvenation" special order.
There is a small chance to receive certain hats from slaying monsters, breaking crates and barrels, chopping trees, shaking trees with seeds, digging Artifact Spots, or panning. These hats are indicated below with the source "Various player actions".[1]
Image Name Description Achievement How to Obtain
Cowboy Hat The leather is old and cracked, but surprisingly supple. It smells musty. A Complete Collection Complete the museum collection.
Bowler Hat Made from smooth felt. Millionaire Earn 1,000,000g.
Top Hat A gentleman's classic. Purchase for 8,000 in Qi's Casino.
Sombrero A festively decorated hat made from woven straw. Legend Earn 10,000,000g.
Straw Hat Light and cool, it's a farmer's delight. Win the egg hunt at the Egg Festival.
Official Cap Looks like it belonged to a postman or policeman. Either way, it's still very soft and smells okay. Ol' Mariner Catch 24 different fish.
Blue Bonnet Harken back to simpler times with this prairie bonnet. Treasure Trove Donate 40 different items to The Museum.
Plum Chapeau Looks alright. Sous Chef Cook 25 different recipes.
Skeleton Mask The red eyes are glowing mysteriously. Monster Eradication Goal - Defeat 50 Skeletons.
Goblin Mask Freak out the neighborhood with this creepy mask. Rubber ear joints for effect. Full Shipment Ship every item.
Chicken Mask You'll be sure to get them grinning with this one. A Big Help Complete 40 'Help Wanted' requests.
Earmuffs Keep your ears toasty. Lined with artisanal velvet from Castle Village. Popular Reach a 5-heart friend level with 20 people.
Delicate Bow Little pink jewels glisten as you examine it. Cook Cook 10 different recipes.
Tropiclip It's shaped like a little palm tree. Moving Up Upgrade your house.
Butterfly Bow This one is very soft. A New Friend Reach a 5-heart friend level with someone.
Hunter's Cap The wool lining should stay warm deep into the forest. Living Large Upgrade your house to the maximum size.
Trucker Hat Mesh in the back to keep your head cool. Artisan Craft 30 different items.
Sailor's Cap It's fresh and starchy. Win the fishing competition at the Festival of Ice.
Good Ol' Cap A floppy old topper with a creased bill. Looks like it's been through a lot. Greenhorn Earn 15,000g.
Fedora A city-slicker's standard. Purchase for 500 at the Stardew Valley Fair.
Cool Cap It looks really faded, but it used to be a vibrant blue. Homesteader Earn 250,000g.
Lucky Bow The middle is made of solid gold. Cowpoke Earn 50,000g.
Polka Bow This one's sure to be turn heads. Gofer Complete 10 'Help Wanted' requests.
Gnome's Cap This gnome had a very large head. Craft Master Craft every Item.
Eye Patch You can't tell if it's real or just from a costume shop. Master Angler Catch every fish.
Santa Hat Celebrate the magical season. Networking Reach a 5-heart friend level with 10 people.
Tiara This one has a big amethyst encircled by gold. Cliques Reach a 5-heart friend level with 4 people.
Hard Hat Keep your dome in one piece. Monster Eradication Goal - Defeat 30 Duggies.
Sou'wester The shape helps to keep sailors dry during storms. Fisherman Catch 10 different fish.
Daisy A fresh spring daisy to put in your hair. D.I.Y. Craft 15 different items.
Watermelon Band The color scheme was inspired by the beloved summer melon. Mother Catch Catch 100 Fish.
Mouse Ears Made from synthetic fibers. Best Friends Reach a 10-heart friend level with someone.
Cat Ears Whiskers included. The Beloved Farmer Reach a 10-heart friend level with 8 people.
Cowgal Hat The band is studded with fake diamonds. Monoculture Ship 300 of one crop.
Cowpoke Hat For dairy experts. Polyculture Ship 15 of each crop.
Archer's Cap Fashionable whether you're an archer or not. Gourmet Chef Cook every recipe.
Panda Hat A lovely panda hat. WeGame [2] exclusive content; unobtainable otherwise
Blue Cowboy Hat A denim cowboy hat in cool blue. Skull Cavern treasure chests
Red Cowboy Hat An eye-catching cowboy hat in red suede. Skull Cavern treasure chests
Cone Hat A curiosity from a distant land. Purchase from the Magic Shop Boat at the Night Market.
Living Hat It absorbs moisture from your scalp. No watering needed!
0.001% chance to find while cutting weeds.
0.01% chance of dropping from Wilderness Golems.
Emily's Magic Hat Made with love by Emily. It's 100% organic! Obtained in Emily's 14-heart cutscene.
Mushroom Cap It smells earthy. 1% chance of obtaining when chopping down a Mushroom Tree.
Dinosaur Hat A hat fashioned to look like a small dinosaur. Tailoring
Totem Mask Don't worry, it won't warp your face... Tailoring
Logo Cap A pink cap with a sleek profile. Tailoring • Various player actions
Wearable Dwarf Helm A slightly larger, human sized version of the helmets worn by dwarves. Tailoring • Various player actions
Fashion Hat A fashionable hat with a feather in the brim. Tailoring • Various player actions
Pumpkin Mask This must have been a pretty big pumpkin once... Tailoring
Hair Bone A prehistoric version of the hair bow. Tailoring • Various player actions
Knight's Helmet It looks just like the real thing! Monster Eradication Goal - Defeat 50 Pepper Rex.
Squire's Helmet The face is exposed to increase air flow. Monster drop from Metal Heads.
Spotted Headscarf A red polka-dot scarf tied around the head. Tailoring • Various player actions
Beanie A warm hat with a pretty tight fit. Tailoring • Various player actions
Floppy Beanie A warm hat with a looser fit. Tailoring • Various player actions
Fishing Hat The wide brim keeps you shaded when you're fishing on the riverbank. Tailoring • Various player actions
Blobfish Mask Just as spongy as the real thing! Tailoring
Party Hat A goofy red hat that makes any celebration more fun. Tailoring • Various player actions
Party Hat A goofy blue hat that makes any celebration more fun. Tailoring • Various player actions
Party Hat A goofy green hat that makes any celebration more fun. Tailoring • Various player actions
Arcane Hat The type of cowboy hat worn by a wizard. Monster Eradication Goal - Defeat 100 Mummies.
Chef Hat The traditional hat worn by a head chef. Gourmet Chef Cook every recipe.
Pirate Hat A captain's hat with a horrible skull on the front. Tailoring • Various player actions
Flat Topped Hat An old style of hat once considered very fashionable. Tailoring • Various player actions
Elegant Turban A fine black silk turban with gold trim. Earn all other Achievements.
White Turban A fine white silk turban with blue trim.
Tailoring
Skull Cavern treasure chests
Garbage Hat It's a garbage can lid 'upcycled' into a hat... 0.2% chance to find while checking Garbage Cans in Town, only after checking 20 cans.
Golden Mask A faithful recreation of the Calico Desert relic! Tailoring
Propeller Hat A goofy hat with a propeller on top. Tailoring • Various player actions
Bridal Veil The traditional headwear for a bride. Tailoring • Various player actions
Witch Hat A pointy hat popular with witches. Tailoring • Various player actions
Copper Pan (hat) You place the copper pan on your head... Place the Copper Pan in the hat slot next to the farmer sprite in the inventory menu.
Green Turban A green silk turban with a gold ornament on the front. Desert Trader in exchange for 50 Omni Geodes.
Magic Cowboy Hat It's shimmering with prismatic energy Desert Trader in exchange for 333 Omni Geodes, odd days.
Magic Turban It's shimmering with prismatic energy Desert Trader in exchange for 333 Omni Geodes, even days.
Golden Helmet It's half of a golden coconut. Golden Coconuts (5% chance on opening).
Deluxe Pirate Hat Only the most infamous pirate could pull off this look. Volcano Dungeon rare chests
Pink Bow This huge bow makes quite a statement! Purchase for 10,000g from the Dwarf Shop in the Volcano Dungeon (25% chance to be sold).
Frog Hat A slimy friend that lives on your dome. Fish in the Gourmand Frog's cave on Ginger Island.
Small Cap It's a more aerodynamic style of cap. Island Trader on Mondays in exchange for 30 Taro Roots.
Bluebird Mask Wear this to look just like your favorite island trader. Island Trader on Wednesdays in exchange for 30 Taro Roots.
Deluxe Cowboy Hat A cowboy hat with a more extreme shape. Island Trader on Fridays in exchange for 30 Taro Roots.
Mr. Qi's Hat A replica of Mr. Qi's iconic hat. Purchase for 5 in Qi's Walnut Room.
Dark Cowboy Hat A cowboy hat in fashionable black. Skull Cavern treasure chests
Radioactive Goggles Doesn't actually provide any protection from radiation. Tailoring • Various player actions
Swashbuckler Hat The classic swashbuckler look. Tailoring • Various player actions
Qi Mask ??? Tailoring
Star Helmet A red hat with stars on it. Tailoring • Various player actions
Sunglasses These give you a relaxed look. Tailoring • Various player actions
Goggles These will make you look very safe. Tailoring • Various player actions
Forager's Hat It's a forager's delight. Tailoring • Various player actions
Tiger Hat Makes you look like a beautiful tiger. 0.1% chance of dropping from Tiger Slimes.
Warrior Helmet An Ostrich eggshell repurposed into a helmet. Tailoring
??? ??? Interact with the monkey in the Volcano Caldera once you have achieved 100% Perfection.
Abigail's Bow It's just like Abby's. Purchase for 60 from Abigail's shop at the Desert Festival.
Tricorn Hat It's a traditional hat for naval officers. Purchase for 100 from Elliott's shop at the Desert Festival.
Joja Cap An official Joja Cap. Made from 100% polyester. Randomly obtained from Emily's outfit services at the Desert Festival.
Laurel Wreath Crown A garland of leaves shaped into a lovely crown. Randomly obtained from Emily's outfit services at the Desert Festival.
Gil's Hat It's the same hat that Gil wears. Obtained as a reward for submitting an egg rating of 25-54 to Gil during Desert Festival.
Blue Bow This huge bow makes quite a statement! Purchase for 50 from the Calico Egg Merchant at the Desert Festival.
Dark Velvet Bow A big, floppy bow made of dark velvet. Purchase for 75 from the Calico Egg Merchant at the Desert Festival.
Mummy Mask A large mummy mask... frightening! Purchase for 120 from the Calico Egg Merchant at the Desert Festival.
Bucket Hat A simple hat with a short brim. Obtained as a reward from the Trout Derby.
Squid Hat It's your chance to wear a squid on the head. Obtained as a reward from the SquidFest.
Sports Cap The cap has a vintage team logo on it. Can be obtained from the Prize Machine.
Red Fez A unique hat made popular by the famous merchant pig. Purchase for 8,000g from the Traveling Cart (10% chance to be sold).
Raccoon Hat A classic hat from the old frontier days. Fulfill the third request from the Raccoon at the Giant Stump.
Steel Pan (hat) You place the steel pan on your head... Place the Steel Pan in the hat slot next to the farmer sprite in the inventory menu.
Gold Pan (hat) You place the gold pan on your head... Place the Gold Pan in the hat slot next to the farmer sprite in the inventory menu.
Iridium Pan (hat) You place the iridium pan on your head... Place the Iridium Pan in the hat slot next to the farmer sprite in the inventory menu.
Mystery Hat Made from the leftovers of a Mystery Box. Mystery Boxes or Golden Mystery Boxes.
Dark Ballcap It fits perfectly on your head. Randomly obtained from Emily's outfit services at the Desert Festival.
Leprechaun Hat The previous owner must've had a big head for a Leprechaun. Drops from the pot of gold by the rainbow next to the Abandoned House on Spring 17th.
Junimo Hat To honor our little buddies... Perfection Reach the summit.
Paper Hat It's made out of special paper that won't disintegrate in the rain. A Distant Shore Reach Ginger Island.
Pageboy Cap For some reason, it makes you want to sell newspapers. Well-Read Read every book.
Jester Hat Put your inner clown on display. Two Thumbs Up See a movie.
Blue Ribbon A lovely ribbon that sits behind the head. Blue Ribbon Get 1st place in the Stardew Valley Fair competition.
Governor's Hat A replica of the Governor's iconic hat. An Unforgettable Soup Delight the Governor.
White Bow A bow as white as snow. Good Neighbors Help your forest neighbors grow their family.
Space Helmet Warning: This helmet has not actually been tested in outer space. Danger In The Deep Reach the bottom of the 'dangerous' mines.
Infinity Crown It's made from an exotic metal you've never seen before. Infinite Power Obtain the most powerful weapon.
Secrets
Hats can be placed on unexpected things.
Pans can be placed into the player's hat slot to save inventory space.
Notes
↑ See Utility::getRandomCosmeticItem and Utility::trySpawnRareObject in the game code. Chances are determined in GameLocation::monsterDrop, BreakableContainer::releaseContents, Tree::performToolAction, Tree::shake, GameLocation::digUpArtifactSpot, and Pan::getPanItems.
↑ WeGame is a gaming platform that only operates in mainland China. It is created by Tencent.
History
1.3.27: Added 3 new hats: Blue Cowboy Hat, Red Cowboy Hat, and Cone Hat. Hats can now be placed on horses.
1.4: Added 35 new hats. Hats can now be placed on children, and removed from horses and children.
1.5: Added 19 new hats. Hats can now be placed on sea urchins in fish tanks.
1.6: Added 28 new hats. Hats can now be placed on cats and dogs. Certain hats can now be found via various player actions, similar to the Living Hat. Increased the price of many hats sold by the mouse in the Abandoned House.
Clothing
Footwear Cinderclown Shoes • Combat Boots • Cowboy Boots • Crystal Shoes • Dark Boots • Dragonscale Boots • Emily's Magic Boots • Firewalker Boots • Genie Shoes • Leather Boots • Leprechaun Shoes • Mermaid Boots • Rubber Boots • Sneakers • Space Boots • Thermal Boots • Tundra Boots • Work Boots
Hats ??? • Abigail's Bow • Arcane Hat • Archer's Cap • Beanie • Blobfish Mask • Blue Bonnet • Blue Bow • Blue Cowboy Hat • Blue Ribbon • Bluebird Mask • Bowler Hat • Bridal Veil • Bucket Hat • Butterfly Bow • Cat Ears • Chef Hat • Chicken Mask • Cone Hat • Cool Cap • Copper Pan (hat) • Cowboy Hat • Cowgal Hat • Cowpoke Hat • Daisy • Dark Ballcap • Dark Cowboy Hat • Dark Velvet Bow • Delicate Bow • Deluxe Cowboy Hat • Deluxe Pirate Hat • Dinosaur Hat • Earmuffs • Elegant Turban • Emily's Magic Hat • Eye Patch • Fashion Hat • Fedora • Fishing Hat • Flat Topped Hat • Floppy Beanie • Forager's Hat • Frog Hat • Garbage Hat • Gil's Hat • Gnome's Cap • Goblin Mask • Goggles • Gold Pan (hat) • Golden Helmet • Golden Mask • Good Ol' Cap • Governor's Hat • Green Turban • Hair Bone • Hard Hat • Hunter's Cap • Infinity Crown • Iridium Pan (hat) • Jester Hat • Joja Cap • Junimo Hat • Knight's Helmet • Laurel Wreath Crown • Leprechaun Hat • Living Hat • Logo Cap • Lucky Bow • Magic Cowboy Hat • Magic Turban • Mouse Ears • Mr. Qi's Hat • Mummy Mask • Mushroom Cap • Mystery Hat • Official Cap • Pageboy Cap • Panda Hat • Paper Hat • Party Hat (blue • green • red) • Pink Bow • Pirate Hat • Plum Chapeau • Polka Bow • Propeller Hat • Pumpkin Mask • Qi Mask • Raccoon Hat • Radioactive Goggles • Red Cowboy Hat • Red Fez • Sailor's Cap • Santa Hat • Skeleton Mask • Small Cap • Sombrero • Sou'wester • Space Helmet • Sports Cap • Spotted Headscarf • Squid Hat • Squire's Helmet • Star Helmet • Steel Pan (hat) • Straw Hat • Sunglasses • Swashbuckler Hat • Tiara • Tiger Hat • Top Hat • Totem Mask • Tricorn Hat • Tropiclip • Trucker Hat • Warrior Helmet • Watermelon Band • Wearable Dwarf Helm • White Bow • White Turban • Witch Hat
Rings Amethyst Ring • Aquamarine Ring • Burglar's Ring • Crabshell Ring • Emerald Ring • Glow Ring • Glowstone Ring • Hot Java Ring • Immunity Band • Iridium Band • Jade Ring • Jukebox Ring • Lucky Ring • Magnet Ring • Napalm Ring • Phoenix Ring • Protection Ring • Ring of Yoba • Ruby Ring • Savage Ring • Slime Charmer Ring • Small Glow Ring • Small Magnet Ring • Soul Sapper Ring • Sturdy Ring • Thorns Ring • Topaz Ring • Vampire Ring • Warrior Ring • Wedding Ring
Trinkets Basilisk Paw • Fairy Box • Frog Egg • Golden Spur • Ice Rod • Magic Hair Gel • Magic Quiver • Parrot Egg
Other Dyeing • Tailoring • Emily's Magic Shirt • Luau Skirt • Mystery Shirt • Tight Pants
Category: Hats