Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Hay
Dried grass used as animal food.
Information
Source Grass • Wheat • Marnie's Ranch • Desert Trader
Location The Farm
Season  Spring •  Summer •  Fall
Energy Inedible
Sell Price 0g
Hay comes from dried plants and is used to feed farm animals.
Hay can be harvested from Grass or Wheat using any scythe. It can only be harvested from Grass if there is an unfilled Silo on the farm. For grass, when using a Scythe, there is a 50% chance of producing 1 Hay each time a tile is completely cleared of Grass; using a Golden Scythe, the chance is 75% and using an Iridium Scythe the chance is 100%; using any scythe on wheat, grants a 40% chance for hay. If successfully cut, a Blue Grass will produce two pieces of hay, instead of the usual one. Note that although Grass can also be cleared using any Weapon or Bomb, no Hay is produced in these cases. All Hay harvested from Grass is immediately placed directly into the farm's Silos. When harvesting Wheat using any scythe there is a 40% chance that each harvested Wheat will drop one unit of Hay, which in this case added to the player's inventory (or the Junimo Hut storage, if harvested by Junimos). Hay from Wheat does not go directly into Silos.
Hay may also be obtained by cutting weeds with a weapon with the Haymaker enchantment, which gives a 1/3 chance for each cut weed to produce a Hay. Hay obtained this way goes directly into Silos if cut on the farm, and into the player's inventory if outside of the farm.
Each Silo can store up to 240 pieces of Hay. Hay stored in Silos can only be withdrawn using the Hoppers found in Coops and Barns. When right-clicked, a Hopper will dispense Hay equal to the number of animals living in the building — but no more than the number of empty slots in the building's Feeding Bench. Therefore, it becomes impossible to withdraw Hay from a Hopper in deluxe Coops and Barns where the autofeeder always keeps the feeding bench full (see Tip). Right-clicking on a Hopper if Hay is the active item in the player's inventory will transfer the entire stack of Hay into the Silos. Once retrieved from the hopper, hay can be transferred to chests for storage from the inventory, bypassing the need for multiple silos.
Hay can be purchased, either from Marnie's Ranch for 50g or from the Desert Trader who sells 3 Hay in exchange for 1 Omni Geode on Mondays. Marnie may randomly send the player 30 Hay in the mail. Marnie also sells Hay at her Desert Festival shop for 1 Calico Egg. 100 Hay is sometimes sold at the Stardew Valley Fair for 500. Fifteen pieces of hay are provided by Mayor Lewis at the start of the game if the player has chosen the Meadowlands Farm.
Contents
1 Feeding Animals
2 Gifting
3 Quests
4 Bundles
5 Tailoring
6 Tip
7 History
Feeding Animals
The interior of a basic Coop showing the locations of the Hopper and feeding bench.
All Coop-dwelling and Barn-dwelling Animals eat 1 Hay per day as food whenever there is no fresh Grass available. This Hay must manually be placed on the feeding bench in the animal's home building; the Hopper in the building facilitates withdrawing Hay from the Silos to place on the bench, although the Hay can come from any source. The autofeeder in Deluxe Barns and Coops automatically fills the feeding bench. If unfed, animals will not die, but they will be unhappy.
Given that animals cannot go outside during Winter, it is advisable to Harvest as much Hay as possible by Fall 28 in preparation for the winter. Building multiple Silos may be necessary to provide sufficient storage capacity for Winter. Alternatively, Hay can be withdrawn via a Hopper and placed into Chests. If the farm runs out of stored Hay during the winter, the only ways to feed animals are by purchasing Hay, scything any grass that may be left over from Fall, or by growing Wheat in the Greenhouse or the Ginger Island Farm.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Quests
Hay is not used in any quests.
Bundles
10 Hay are used in the Fodder Bundle on the Bulletin Board.
Tailoring
Hay is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create a Grass Skirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a yellow dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Tip
The only way to remove Hay from a Feeding Bench is to use a Bomb. This makes it possible to withdraw Hay from the building's Hopper when it is otherwise impossible, for example, if all buildings contain Autofeeders or if the player's Spouse has fed the animals.
History
1.4: Added Golden Scythe. Added chance for Wheat to drop Hay. Added purchase from Desert Trader. Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Now sometimes sold at the Stardew Valley Fair.
1.6: Now obtainable through Desert Festival. Now received at start of save if Meadowlands Farm is selected. Added Iridium Scythe.
Category: Special items