Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Honey
It's a sweet syrup produced by bees.
Information
Source Artisan Goods • Oasis
Season Spring • Summer • Fall
All Seasons on Ginger Island
Energy Inedible
Sell Prices
Base Artisan (+40%)
100g
140g
Artisan Sell Prices
Base Artisan (+40%)
300g
375g
450g
600g
420g
525g
630g
840g
Artisan Goods
Equipment
Bee House
Processing Time
6100m (≈4d)
Ingredients Various flowers
Honey is an Artisan Good produced by the Bee House every 4 days in every season other than Winter in the valley, and in every season on Ginger Island. It can be purchased from the Oasis year-round on Fridays for 200g or at the Traveling Cart for 300–1,000g.
Honey can be made into mead by placing it inside a keg.
Contents
1 Flower Honey
2 Sell Prices
3 Range
4 Gifting
5 Bundles
6 Recipes
7 Artisan Goods
8 Tailoring
9 Quests
10 Tips
11 References
12 History
Flower Honey
Fully-grown flowers planted near the Bee House (including those grown in Garden Pots) will have an effect on the type of honey produced, increasing its sale price. Flowers are not consumed when a hive produces honey, and multiple hives can make honey from the same flower, so one flower can service a large number of hives. The honey type is determined when harvested, rather than when it becomes ready. If honey is left in a Bee House until a nearby flower has bloomed, it will be harvested as flower honey.
If no flowers are planted near the Bee House, or if a Bee House has produced flower honey, but the flower is harvested before the honey, the honey will become "Wild Honey," the least profitable Honey. Honey purchased from the Oasis or Traveling Cart, or deconstructed from a Warp Totem: Farm, is also called "Honey", and is also functionally identical to Wild Honey.
Sell Prices
Flowers not listed below (i.e., Crocus and Sweet Pea) do not influence the price of honey. Daffodil and Dandelion are classified as "Forage" not "Flower" in-game, so they do not influence the price of honey either.
The formula used to calculate the sale price of honey is base honey sell price + (base flower sell price × 2).[1]
Flower Honey Flower Season Flower Growth Time Honey Sell Price Artisan Profession
Sell Price (+40%)
N/A (Wild Honey)  Spring
 Summer
 Fall N/A 100g 140g
Tulip
 Spring 6 Days 160g 224g
Blue Jazz
 Spring 7 Days 200g 280g
Summer Spangle
 Summer 8 Days 280g 392g
Poppy
 Summer 7 Days 380g 532g
Sunflower
 Summer
 Fall 8 Days 260g 364g
Fairy Rose
 Fall 12 Days 680g 952g
Range
Flowers within 5 tiles of a Bee House will affect the type of honey produced.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Hate  Maru •  Sebastian
Bundles
Honey is an option for the Artisan Bundle in the Pantry.
Recipes
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source(s) Sell Price
Warp Totem: Farm Warp directly to your house. Consumed on use.
Hardwood (1)
Honey (1)
Fiber (20)
Foraging Level 8 20g
Artisan Goods
Honey may be placed in a Keg to produce Mead. Mead may be aged in Casks to increase its quality.
Note that the sell price of Mead does not change based on the type of Honey used. Several types of Flower Honey sell for more than Mead, making it more profitable to sell the Honey.
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Mead A fermented beverage made from honey. Drink in moderation.
Honey (1)
Keg
Tailoring
Honey is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the dyeable Simple Dress. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a yellow dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
One Honey (of any type) may be requested by several fish in Fish Pond quests.
Tips
It may prove advantageous to have only one slot free in inventory before gathering honey. The gathered honey will fill up the last inventory slot, preventing the accidental picking of flowers used to make flower honey.
References
↑ See Object::checkForAction in the game code. The base sell price of honey is set in ObjectInformation.xnb.
History
1.4: Added sunflower honey. Fixed lopsided bee house range. Jas & Vincent now like honey, instead of hating it. Honey can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests.
1.5: Honey can now be collected from bee houses right when the morning starts (every 4 days).
1.5.2: Fixed bug where Honey could not be collected from bee houses on the Ginger Island farm during Winter.
1.6: Fixed bee house dropping a generic "Honey" item when you break it, instead of the flavored honey it would produce when harvested normally.
1.6.6: Bee Houses now make flower Honey when flowers are in Garden Pots.
Artisan Goods
Bee House Honey
Cask Beer • Cheese • Goat Cheese • Mead • Pale Ale • Wine
Cheese Press Cheese • Goat Cheese
Keg Beer • Coffee • Green Tea • Juice • Mead • Pale Ale • Wine
Loom Cloth
Mayonnaise Machine Dinosaur Mayonnaise • Duck Mayonnaise • Mayonnaise • Void Mayonnaise
Oil Maker Oil • Truffle Oil
Preserves Jar Aged Roe • Caviar • Jellies and Pickles
Fish Smoker Smoked Fish
Dehydrator Dried Mushrooms • Dried Fruit • Raisins
Misc Maple Syrup • Oak Resin • Pine Tar • Mystic Syrup
Category: Artisan Goods