Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Hopper
Items placed inside will automatically be loaded into the machine in front of it.
Information
Source
Crafting
Qi's Walnut Room for 10
Sell Price Cannot be sold
Crafting
Recipe Source Qi's Walnut Room for 50
Ingredients
Hardwood (10)
Iridium Bar (1)
Radioactive Bar (1)
See also: Hay Hopper
The Hopper is a craftable item that can be purchased from Qi's Walnut Room for 10 Qi Gems. The recipe can also be purchased from Qi's Walnut Room for 50 Qi Gems.
The Hopper loads items that are placed in it into any machine in front of it, provided that the item can be placed into the machine and that the machine is not already processing something.
Items produced this way will still have to be manually removed from the machine. A Hopper will not start processing again until the finished item is removed. On the other hand, multiple possible input items can be loaded at the same time, and it also works with two different input items at the same time. For instance, one could load Coal and an array of different ores into a Hopper connected to a Furnace, which will have the Furnace auto-smelt the ores from left to right.
History
1.5: Introduced.
1.6.9: Fixed bug where if a Hopper was used to bait a Crab Pot, Bait would not be consumed the first time the Crab Pot gets baited.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Category: Craftable items