Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Island Farmhouse
Information
Build cost 20 Golden Walnuts
Build materials None
Size 7x5
The Island Farmhouse is the player's auxiliary residence on the Ginger Island farm. It cannot be accessed until the player unlocks Island West.
The building is initially in a state of disrepair, making it unusable. It can be repaired for 20 Golden Walnuts. Like other Golden Walnut purchases, the process occurs immediately upon payment. The repair includes the addition of a Shipping Bin outside. Neither the building nor the shipping bin can be moved.
Repairing the farmhouse allows players to ship goods and spend the night on Ginger Island without passing out. The repaired farmhouse's interior comes furnished with a kitchen and a Tropical Bed for each player. The Island Farmhouse can be further customised, like the mainland farmhouse and cabins, with furniture, wallpaper, and flooring.
The player has the option to pay another 5 Golden Walnuts to add a mailbox and receive mail on the island. With that upgrade, undelivered mail can be retrieved from either mailbox, regardless of where the player spent the previous night.
With the farmhouse repaired and the mailbox built, the player can then pay 20 Golden Walnuts for the parrots to build a Farm Obelisk next to the farmhouse. The obelisk allows instantaneous travel back to the mainland farm. With the Island Obelisk on the main farm, this provides instant access between the mainland and the island without having to use Willy's ferry services.
Contents
1 Interior
2 Gallery
3 Notes
4 History
Interior
Gallery
Before repair
After repair, with mailbox addition
Notes
If the island farmhouse is repaired, the player can spend an indefinite number of days living on Ginger Island without returning to the mainland. However, spouses, children, and farm animals cannot be moved to the island.
History
1.5: Introduced.
Buildings
Merchants Abandoned House • Adventurer's Guild • Blacksmith • Bookseller • Carpenter's Shop • Casino • Desert Trader • Fish Shop • Giant Stump • Harvey's Clinic • Ice Cream Stand • Island Trader • JojaMart • Marnie's Ranch • Oasis • Pierre's General Store • Qi's Walnut Room • The Stardrop Saloon • Traveling Cart • Volcano Dwarf • Wizard's Tower
Houses 1 River Road • 2 River Road • 1 Willow Lane • 2 Willow Lane • 24 Mountain Road • Elliott's Cabin • Farmhouse • Island Farmhouse • Leah's Cottage • Mayor's Manor • Tent • Trailer • Treehouse
Farm Buildings Farming Barn • Cabin • Coop • Fish Pond • Greenhouse • Mill • Pet Bowl • Shed • Silo • Slime Hutch • Stable • Well
Special Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Gold Clock • Island Obelisk • Junimo Hut • Water Obelisk
Other Buildings Community Center • Dog Pen • Island Field Office • Joja Warehouse • Movie Theater • Museum • Spa • Witch's Hut
Category: Island Locations