Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Island Field Office
Open Hours: Always
Address: North Side of Ginger Island.
Occupants:
Professor Snail
The Island Field Office can be found in Ginger Island North, south of the Volcano and east of the Dig Site.
Until Professor Snail is rescued from the nearby cave, the office remains empty with no interactable elements. After the rescue, donate fossils at the office work desk or answer the Island Surveys posted on the wall to receive Golden Walnuts.
Contents
1 Donations
2 Island Survey
2.1 Purple Flowers
2.2 Purple Starfish
3 Completion Reward
4 References
5 History
Donations
Professor Snail is seeking the mummified bodily remains of two different creatures and all the skeletal pieces of two more to construct a display about the natural history of the island. Multiple fossils of the same kind may be required to complete the skeletons.
The player can receive a hint about the location of a donation item by using the donation interface and choosing "Hint".
Animal Item # Required How to Obtain
Large Animal
Fossilized Leg
2
Breaking Bone Nodes at the Dig Site (10%)
Fossilized Ribs
1
Digging Artifact Spots at the Southern Part of Ginger Island (25%)
Breaking Bone Nodes at the Dig Site (1.35%)
Fossilized Skull
1
Cracking open a Golden Coconut (14%, only after cracking at least one Golden Coconut)
Fossilized Spine
1
Fishing in the Dig Site river (10%)
Fossilized Tail
1
Panning in the Dig Site river (20%)
Frog
Mummified Frog
1
Cutting weeds in the Ginger Island jungle
Bat
Mummified Bat
1
Breaking rocks in the Volcano Dungeon (0.5%)
Snake
Snake Skull
1
Digging Artifact Spots at the west side of Ginger Island (10%)
Digging Artifact Spots at the Dig Site (10%)
Fishing at the west side of Ginger Island (10%)
Snake Vertebrae
2
Digging Artifact Spots at Ginger Island West (22.5%)
Breaking Mussel nodes at Ginger Island West (2.5%)
Breaking other rocks on Ginger Island West (1%)
Island Survey
Located at the back of the Field Office, the survey asks the player either for the specific number of purple flowers or for the amount of purple starfish that are located throughout the island.
The player is only allowed to give one answer to each survey per day. If they get an answer incorrect, they are given another opportunity the next day.
Purple Flowers
Solution 
Purple Starfish
Solution 
Completion Reward
Reward 
References
↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 See IslandFieldOffice::donatePiece in the game code.
History
1.5: Introduced.
1.6: Added alternative rewards for completing animal collections if the player already used the Golden Joja Parrot to collect all of the Golden Walnuts.
Buildings
Merchants Abandoned House • Adventurer's Guild • Blacksmith • Bookseller • Carpenter's Shop • Casino • Desert Trader • Fish Shop • Giant Stump • Harvey's Clinic • Ice Cream Stand • Island Trader • JojaMart • Marnie's Ranch • Oasis • Pierre's General Store • Qi's Walnut Room • The Stardrop Saloon • Traveling Cart • Volcano Dwarf • Wizard's Tower
Houses 1 River Road • 2 River Road • 1 Willow Lane • 2 Willow Lane • 24 Mountain Road • Elliott's Cabin • Farmhouse • Island Farmhouse • Leah's Cottage • Mayor's Manor • Tent • Trailer • Treehouse
Farm Buildings Farming Barn • Cabin • Coop • Fish Pond • Greenhouse • Mill • Pet Bowl • Shed • Silo • Slime Hutch • Stable • Well
Special Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Gold Clock • Island Obelisk • Junimo Hut • Water Obelisk
Other Buildings Community Center • Dog Pen • Island Field Office • Joja Warehouse • Movie Theater • Museum • Spa • Witch's Hut
Category: Island Locations