Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Jack-O-Lantern
A whimsical fall decoration.
Information
Source Crafting • Spirit's Eve
Sell Price 0g
Crafting
Recipe Source Spirit's Eve (2,000g)
Ingredients
Pumpkin (1)
Torch (1)
The Jack-O-Lantern is a craftable decorative lighting item that can be held or placed to provide light. It can be purchased from Pierre's booth at the Spirit's Eve festival for 750g. You can also buy the recipe from the booth for 2,000g.
The Jack-O-Lantern influences a radius of approximately 1 tile with dim lighting. It can be placed indoors or outdoors, or in places like the Mines. It can be removed by striking it with a Hoe, a Pickaxe, or an Axe. Unlike the braziers, which can toggle on and off, the Jack-O-Lantern is always on. They provide the least light out of all craftable lighting sources.
On the 17th of Fall, after the Stardew Valley Fair, Jack-o-Lanterns appear in front of the following locations: 1 Willow Lane (Jodi, Kent, Sam, and Vincent), 2 Willow Lane (Haley and Emily), 1 River Road (Evelyn George, and Alex), Carpenter's Shop (Robin, Demetrius, Maru, and Sebastian), and the Trailer (Pam and Penny).
On the 1st of Winter, the Jack-O-Lantern turns into a Rotten Plant (unless stored in a chest or inventory).
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Tailoring
4 Quests
5 Notes
6 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
The Jack-O-Lantern is used in the Spirit's Eve Bundle on the Bulletin Board (Remixed).
Tailoring
The Jack-O-Lantern is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Pumpkin Mask. It can be used in dyeing, serving as an orange dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
The Jack-O-Lantern is not used in any quests.
Notes
The amount of illumination it gives off is less than a Torch. This may make it more useful as a decorative piece than as night-time lighting.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.6: Added jack-o-lanterns after the Stardew Valley Fair in fall around the Valley. Is now used in the Spirit's Eve Bundle.
Craftable Lighting
Craftable Lighting Barrel Brazier • Campfire • Carved Brazier • Gold Brazier • Iron Lamp-post • Jack-O-Lantern • Marble Brazier • Skull Brazier • Stone Brazier • Stump Brazier • Torch • Wood Lamp-post • Wooden Brazier
Category: Craftable lighting