Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Jas
Information
Birthday  Summer 4
Lives In Cindersap Forest
Address Marnie's Ranch
Family
Marnie (Aunt)
Shane (Godfather)
Marriage No
Clinic Visit  Winter 18
Loved Gifts
Ancient Doll
Fairy Box
Fairy Rose
Pink Cake
Plum Pudding
Strange Doll (green)
Strange Doll (yellow)
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Eight Hearts
6 Quotes
7 Portraits
8 Trivia
9 History
“ “You can play with my dolls if you want to. Just make sure to brush their hair when you're done.”
— Jas
Jas is a villager who lives just outside Pelican Town. She's a young girl, and can often be found with her best friend Vincent.
Schedule
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Jas may randomly spend the day there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Jas will immediately go home to bed. Jas never visits the Resort on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays, Festival days or her checkup day at Harvey's Clinic. Jas also never visits the Resort without an adult accompanying her.
Shown below are Jas' schedules prioritized highest to lowest. For example, if it is raining, that schedule overrides all others below it.
Expand
Spring 17 (Bus Service Restored)
Expand
Desert Festival (As Vendor)
Expand
Green Rain (Year 1)
Expand
Tuesday the 9th and Tuesday the 23rd
Expand
Winter 15
Expand
Winter 18
Expand
Rain
Expand
Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday
Expand
Saturday
Expand
Summer
Expand
Regular Schedule
Relationships
Jas lives with her aunt Marnie and her godfather Shane on her ranch outside town. She's often seen alongside her friend Vincent, who is the only resident of town close to her age. Penny takes time to teach both Vincent and Jas at the museum since there's no school nearby. Jas' parents both died by unknown causes.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Jas up to two gifts per week (plus one on her birthday), which will raise or lower her friendship with you. Gifts on her birthday ( 4 Summer) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved, liked, or neutral gifts, Jas responds
“ “Wow, a birthday present! I love it!”
For disliked or hated gifts, Jas responds
“ “A birthday present? Oh... I don't like this.”
Love
“ “*gasp*...Wow!! Thank you!”
Ancient Doll
“ “Oh, a little dolly! She's kind of dirty, but I'll give her a bath. Thanks!”
Fairy Box
“ “Wow, it’s so pretty! And there’s a fairy inside? *giggle*... I can hear her singing. She’ll be my secret friend.”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Are you sure? It smells so good! I'll only drink a thimbleful a day.”
Strange Doll (green) or Strange Doll (yellow)
“ “Oh, I like him! He'll fit right in with my other friends.”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Ancient Doll An ancient doll covered in grime. This doll may have been used as a toy, a decoration, or a prop in some kind of ritual. Artifacts
Fairy Box Summons a level X fairy companion that heals you in combat situations. Trinkets
Fairy Rose An old folk legend suggests that the sweet smell of this flower attracts fairies. Farming
Pink Cake There's little heart candies on top. Cooking
Melon (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Sugar (1)
Egg (1)
Plum Pudding A traditional holiday treat. Cooking
Wild Plum (2)
Wheat Flour (1)
Sugar (1)
Strange Doll (green) ??? Artifacts
Strange Doll (yellow) ??? Artifacts
Like
“ “I love presents! Thank you!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes (except Piña Colada, Triple Shot Espresso, Vegetables and Artisan Goods other than Honey, Jelly, & Oil)
All Milk
Coconut A seed of the coconut palm. It has many culinary uses. Foraging - Desert
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Neutral
“ “Thank you!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals
Dislike
“ “Is this a gift? Oh...”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Ancient Doll, Clay, Fairy Box, Strange Doll (green), & Strange Doll (yellow))
All Eggs*
All Fruit (except Coconut & Fruit Tree Fruit)
All Vegetables (except Hops & Wheat)
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - The Mines
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Hate
“ “Ew. This is icky.”
Any Alcoholic Beverage
“ “Umm... I'm not supposed to drink this. Isn't it for adults?”
Coffee or Triple Shot Espresso
“ “Oh... Aunt Marnie doesn't let me drink coffee yet...”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Hates
All Artisan Goods (except Honey, Jelly & Oil)
Clay Used in crafting and construction. Tilling
Piña Colada Drink in moderation. The Beach Resort on Ginger Island
Triple Shot Espresso It's more potent than regular coffee! Cooking
Coffee (3)
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
Wumbus
Like
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Dislike
It Howls In The Rain
Mysterium
Love
Sour Slimes
Stardrop Sorbet
Like
Apple Slices
Cappuccino Mousse Cake
Chocolate Popcorn
Cotton Candy
Ice Cream Sandwich
Jawbreaker
Personal Pizza
Rock Candy
Salmon Burger
Star Cookie
Dislike
Everything else
Heart Events
Eight Hearts
After reaching 8 hearts with both Jas and Vincent, enter Cindersap Forest during Spring on a sunny day between 6am and 5pm.
Expand
Details 
Quotes
Expand
Regular 
Expand
Events 
Portraits
Trivia
In the dollhouse in Jas' bedroom, the doll representing her grandfather is "wedged under the bed," unlike the rest of the family who is gathered around the dinner table.
Ironically, Jas hates Clay but she may gift it to you at the Feast of the Winter Star.
Gifting Jas Ice Cream at the Desert Festival raises friendship with her by 200 points. This can be done one time per player.
History
1.3.27: Added eight heart event.
1.4: Now hates Mead, likes Honey & Jelly.
1.4.4: Now hates Triple Shot Espresso.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Added winter portraits. Now loves Ancient Doll, Strange Doll (green), and Strange Doll (yellow). Now likes all Milks.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs