Jump to navigation
Jump to search
For a detailed analysis of profit using the Preserves Jar, see Preserves Jar Productivity.
Jellies and Pickles can be produced by inserting either a fruit or a vegetable / foraged item in a preserves jar, respectively. The value of a single jar of jelly or pickles is equal to (2 * Base Crop Value + 50). Jelly and pickles are unaffected by the quality of the fruit or vegetable used.
A preserves jar requires 4000 minutes, or 2-3 days, to produce jelly or pickles.[1]
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Preserves Jar Turns vegetables into pickles and fruit into jam.
Wood (50)
Stone (40)
Coal (8)
Farming Level 4
Contents
1 Products
2 Gifting Jelly
3 Gifting Pickles
4 Bundles
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 Trivia
8 References
9 History
Products
Quality of ingredients makes no difference to the finished product. The value of the finished product is determined using the base value (i.e., with no silver or gold star) of the fruit/vegetable. However, the preserved version is always at least as profitable as even gold star produce, although the profit margin is lower compared to normal produce.
Image Name Description Ingredients Processing Time Sell Price Energy / Health
Pickles A jar of your home-made pickles. Any vegetable (1) or any positive energy Forage (1) 4000m (2-3 days) 2 × Base Ingredient Price + 50
1.75 × Base Ingredient Energy
1.75 × Base Ingredient Health
Jelly Gooey. Any fruit (1) 4000m (2-3 days) 2 × Base Fruit Price + 50
2 × Base Fruit Energy
2 × Base Fruit Health
Notes
Pickles made from an inedible vegetable will instead give 0.625 × Base Vegetable Price and 0.28125 × Base Vegetable Price.[2]
Jelly made from an inedible fruit will instead give 0.5 × Base Fruit Price and 0.225 × Base Fruit Price.[3]
The following foraged items can be pickled: Cave Carrot, Chanterelle, Common Mushroom, Dandelion, Ginger, Hazelnut, Leek, Magma Cap, Morel, Purple Mushroom, Snow Yam, Spring Onion, Wild Horseradish, and Winter Root.
The color of Jelly or Pickles changes depending on the item used to make it.
Gifting Jelly
Villager Reactions
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Hate  Sebastian
Gifting Pickles
Villager Reactions
Love  Harvey
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sandy •  Willy •  Wizard
Dislike  Leo
Hate  Jas •  Maru •  Sam •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent
Bundles
Jelly is one of the options for the Artisan Bundle in the Pantry.
Tailoring
Jelly is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create a Shirt.
Pickles are used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create a Shirt.
Jelly can also be used as a red dye color at the dye pots in Emily's and Haley's house, located at 2 Willow Lane, and Pickles can be used as a green dye.
Quests
One Jelly (of any type) or one Pickles (of any type) may be requested by Catfish, Rainbow Trout, Spook Fish, Super Cucumber, or Sturgeon in Fish Pond quests.
One Jelly is requested by the Raccoon at the Giant Stump as part of his second request. It may also be requested as part of any request starting with the sixth.
One Pickles is requested by the Raccoon at the Giant Stump as part of his fourth request. It may also be requested as part of any request starting with the sixth.
Trivia
Jelly sold by the Traveling Cart will not be of any fruit type and will sell for 160g (224g with the Artisan Profession).
Pickles sold by the Traveling Cart will not be of any vegetable type and will sell for 100g (140g with the Artisan Profession).
The description of the Preserves Jar states that it makes Jam, but it actually produces Jelly.
References
↑ One hour = 60 minutes from 6am to 2am, but 1 hour = 100 minutes from 2am to 6am.
↑ See ObjectDataDefinition::CreateFlavoredPickle in the game code.
↑ See ObjectDataDefinition::CreateFlavoredJelly in the game code.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.4: Jas & Vincent no longer hate Jelly, they like it. Jellies and Pickles can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests.
1.6: Jellies and Pickles now change color depending on the item used to make them. Jellies and Pickles are now consumable. Positive energy foraged items can now be made into Pickles. Both Jelly and Pickles are now requested by the Raccoon.
1.6.2: Fixed inedible items becoming poisonous after being turned into jelly or pickles.
Artisan Goods
Bee House Honey
Cask Beer • Cheese • Goat Cheese • Mead • Pale Ale • Wine
Cheese Press Cheese • Goat Cheese
Keg Beer • Coffee • Green Tea • Juice • Mead • Pale Ale • Wine
Loom Cloth
Mayonnaise Machine Dinosaur Mayonnaise • Duck Mayonnaise • Mayonnaise • Void Mayonnaise
Oil Maker Oil • Truffle Oil
Preserves Jar Aged Roe • Caviar • Jellies and Pickles
Fish Smoker Smoked Fish
Dehydrator Dried Mushrooms • Dried Fruit • Raisins
Misc Maple Syrup • Oak Resin • Pine Tar • Mystic Syrup
Category: Artisan Goods