Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Jodi
Information
Birthday  Fall 11
Lives In Pelican Town
Address 1 Willow Lane
Family
Kent (Husband)
Sam (Son)
Vincent (Son)
Marriage No
Clinic Visit  Spring 11 (with Vincent)
 Spring 18
Loved Gifts
Chocolate Cake
Crispy Bass
Diamond
Eggplant Parmesan
Fried Eel
Pancakes
Rhubarb Pie
Vegetable Medley
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Anytime
5.2 Two Hearts
5.3 Three Hearts
5.4 Four Hearts
5.5 Seven Hearts
6 Quotes
7 Quests
8 Portraits
9 History
“ “Maybe I've spoiled the boys a bit. They've never had to do any chores. I guess I want them to be able to enjoy their childhood while they still can.”
— Jodi
Jodi is a villager who lives in Pelican Town. She lives at 1 Willow Lane with her husband Kent (who is away serving in the military until the first of Spring Year 2) and two sons, Sam and Vincent.
Schedule
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Jodi may randomly spend the day there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Jodi will immediately go home to bed. Jodi never visits the Resort on Festival days or her checkup day at Harvey's Clinic. She also won't visit the Resort on Vincent's checkup day.
Shown below are Jodi's schedules prioritized highest to lowest within each season. For example, if it is raining, that schedule overrides all others below it.
Expand
 Spring
Expand
 Summer
Expand
 Fall
Expand
 Winter
Relationships
Jodi is married to Kent and together they have two sons, Sam and Vincent.
Jodi will mention that Caroline is her best friend and that she is able to tell her anything. They also attend exercise classes along with some of the other Pelican Town ladies.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Jodi up to two gifts per week (plus one on her birthday), which will raise or lower her friendship with you. Gifts on her birthday ( 11 Fall) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved or liked gifts, Jodi responds
“ “A birthday gift? That's very kind of you! I love it.”
“ “You remembered my birthday! Thank you. This is great.”
For neutral gifts, Jodi responds
“ “Oh, a birthday gift! Thank you.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Jodi responds
“ “Oh... It's for my birthday? ... Thanks.”
Love
“ “Oh, you're such a sweetheart! I really love this!”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Ah... You sure you want to give away such a precious item? Well, thank you!”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Chocolate Cake Rich and moist with a thick fudge icing. Cooking
Wheat Flour (1)
Sugar (1)
Egg (1)
Crispy Bass Wow, the breading is perfect. Cooking
Largemouth Bass (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Oil (1)
Diamond A rare and valuable gem. Mining
Eggplant Parmesan Tangy, cheesy, and wonderful. Cooking
Eggplant (1)
Tomato (1)
Fried Eel Greasy but flavorful. Cooking
Eel (1)
Oil (1)
Pancakes A double stack of fluffy, soft pancakes. Cooking
Wheat Flour (1)
Egg (1)
Rhubarb Pie Mmm, tangy and sweet! Cooking
Rhubarb (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Sugar (1)
Vegetable Medley This is very nutritious. Cooking
Tomato (1)
Beet (1)
Like
“ “Thank you! This makes my day really special.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes (except Garlic)
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
All Fruit (except Spice Berry)
All Milk
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Neutral
“ “That's so nice of you! Thanks.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals
Dislike
“ “Hmm, well I guess I could always put this in the compost...”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Garlic Adds a wonderful zestiness to dishes. High quality garlic can be pretty spicy. Farming - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - Fall
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - The Mines
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
Hate
“ “*Blech*... I hate this...”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Spice Berry It fills the air with a pungent aroma. Foraging - Summer
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
The Zuzu City Express
Like
It Howls In The Rain
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Mysterium
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
Wumbus
Dislike
N/A
Love
Chocolate Popcorn
Stardrop Sorbet
Like
Cappuccino Mousse Cake
Fries
Ice Cream Sandwich
Jasmine Tea
Nachos
Personal Pizza
Popcorn
Salmon Burger
Salted Peanuts
Star Cookie
Dislike
Everything else
Heart Events
Anytime
At any friendship level greater than zero friendship points, you may receive a gift in the mail from Jodi. The chance of receiving a gift in the mail increases as your friendship with Jodi increases.
Expand
Details 
Two Hearts
When the player reaches 2 hearts, they can enter her room and find a letter from her husband Kent in the drawer next to her bed.
Expand
Details 
Three Hearts
After reaching 3 hearts, Jodi will send you a recipe in the mail.
Expand
Details 
Four Hearts
Leave your farmhouse between 6:00am - 9:30am on a Monday to find Jodi waiting outside.
Expand
Details 




Seven Hearts
After reaching 7 hearts, Jodi sends you a recipe in the mail.
Expand
Details 
Quotes
Expand
Regular 
Expand
Events 

Quests
"Jodi's Request": Jodi will send you a letter on the 19th of Spring requesting a Cauliflower. The reward is 350g and 1 Friendship heart.
"Fish Casserole": After reaching 4 hearts with Jodi, she will visit your farm and invite you to dinner at her house, requesting that you bring a Largemouth Bass. There is no reward other than a cutscene.
Jodi may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
Portraits
History
1.4: Fixed bug where all recipes would be sent at 3 friendship hearts.
1.5: Added beach portraits.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Added winter portraits.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs