Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Joja Warehouse
Open Hours: Always
Closed: Never
The Joja Warehouse is a building that replaces the Community Center if the player chooses to purchase the JojaMart membership for 5,000g.
After purchasing a JojaMart membership, all town restorations are purchased through the Joja Community Development Form at JojaMart, rather than by completing bundles, and all completion cutscenes will show the JojaMart workers completing the task instead of the Junimos.
Improvements made prior to purchasing a membership (Minecarts, the Greenhouse, etc.) will remain in place and show as already completed after purchasing a membership. Any unfinished improvements will cost full price, regardless of how much progress was made towards it prior to purchasing a membership.
Contents
1 Interior
2 After Form Completion
3 Trivia
4 History
Interior
After Form Completion
After completion of the Community Development Form, Morris will make a new offer when the player talks to him at JojaMart:
“ “Ah, our favorite customer... I have exciting news for you! Joja headquarters has approved the construction of a new Joja "entertainment opportunity" to replace the nearby Joja Warehouse. We just need an investor willing to support our vision! So, naturally, I turn to you... our most devoted and generous Joja member.
We could make this happen for a small investment of... *cough*... 500,000g...”
Paying Morris the 500,000g will result in turning the warehouse into the Movie Theater.
Trivia
The old boiler room does not get filled with boxes and supplies, unlike the other rooms that were replaced to be made more Joja style. It will be left in a state of disrepair. If the boiler room was previously completed through the Junimo bundles before buying a membership, it will revert to its dilapidated state.
History
1.4: Movie theater option introduced.
Buildings
Merchants Abandoned House • Adventurer's Guild • Blacksmith • Bookseller • Carpenter's Shop • Casino • Desert Trader • Fish Shop • Giant Stump • Harvey's Clinic • Ice Cream Stand • Island Trader • JojaMart • Marnie's Ranch • Oasis • Pierre's General Store • Qi's Walnut Room • The Stardrop Saloon • Traveling Cart • Volcano Dwarf • Wizard's Tower
Houses 1 River Road • 2 River Road • 1 Willow Lane • 2 Willow Lane • 24 Mountain Road • Elliott's Cabin • Farmhouse • Island Farmhouse • Leah's Cottage • Mayor's Manor • Tent • Trailer • Treehouse
Farm Buildings Farming Barn • Cabin • Coop • Fish Pond • Greenhouse • Mill • Pet Bowl • Shed • Silo • Slime Hutch • Stable • Well
Special Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Gold Clock • Island Obelisk • Junimo Hut • Water Obelisk
Other Buildings Community Center • Dog Pen • Island Field Office • Joja Warehouse • Movie Theater • Museum • Spa • Witch's Hut
Category: Town Locations