Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Kent
Information
Birthday  Spring 4
Lives In Pelican Town
Address 1 Willow Lane
Family
Jodi (Wife)
Sam (Son)
Vincent (Son)
Marriage No
Loved Gifts
Fiddlehead Risotto
Roasted Hazelnuts
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Anytime
5.2 Three Hearts I
5.3 Three Hearts II
5.4 Seven Hearts
6 Quotes
7 Trivia
8 Quests
9 Portraits
10 History
“ “I don't know if I'll ever get used to being back home. The peacefulness of the town feels like a mask. That's probably just me though.”
— Kent
Kent is a villager who lives in Pelican Town. He is away serving in the army throughout the first year and returns to live in the town during spring of year two. Year one references to him include the contents of the drawer in Jodi's bedroom and dialogue from Sam and Vincent.
Schedule
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Kent may randomly spend the day there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Kent will immediately go home to bed. Kent never visits the Resort on Festival days.
Shown below is Kent's schedule, prioritized from the top down. For example, if it is raining, that schedule overrides all schedules below it.
Spring 17 (Bus Service Restored)
Desert Festival (As Vendor)
Rain
Friday and Saturday
Sunday (Alex's 14 heart event seen)
Sunday
Regular Schedule
Relationships
Kent is married to Jodi and together they have two sons, Sam and Vincent.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Kent up to two gifts per week (plus one on his birthday), which will raise or lower his friendship with you. Gifts on his birthday ( 4 Spring) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved or liked gifts, Kent responds
“ “A birthday gift? That's very kind of you! I love it.”
“ “You remembered my birthday! Thank you. This is great.”
For neutral gifts, Kent responds
“ “Oh, a birthday gift! Thank you.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Kent responds
“ “Oh... It's for my birthday? ... Thanks.”
Love
“ “Oh...! Mom used to give me this when I was a young boy. It brings back wonderful memories. Thank you.”
Stardrop Tea
“ “For me? Well, that's unexpected... But I won't say no. Thanks!”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Fiddlehead Risotto A creamy rice dish served with sauteed fern heads. It's a little bland. Cooking
Oil (1)
Fiddlehead Fern (1)
Garlic (1)
Roasted Hazelnuts The roasting process creates a rich forest flavor. Cooking
Hazelnut (3)
Like
“ “Hey, now this is a really great gift. Thanks.”
Dwarvish Safety Manual
“ “Well, I can't read Dwarvish, but it's an interesting collector's item. Thank you.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes (except Algae Soup, Piña Colada, Sashimi, & Tortilla)
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
All Fruit
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dwarvish Safety Manual Bombs deal 25% less damage to you. Books
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Neutral
“ “That's kind of you. The family will like this.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals (except Dwarvish Safety Manual)
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
Dislike
“ “Ah... It's a... what is this, exactly? Hmm...”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes
Piña Colada Drink in moderation. Beach Resort on Sundays
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Mining
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Hate
“ “This... They gave this to me in Gotoro prison camp. I've been trying to forget about that. *shudder*.”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Hates
All Milk
Algae Soup It's a little slimy. Cooking
Green Algae (4)
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Sashimi Raw fish sliced into thin pieces. Cooking
Fish (1)
Tortilla Can be used as a vessel for food or eaten by itself. Cooking
Corn (1)
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
N/A
Like
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Wumbus
Dislike
It Howls In The Rain
Mysterium
Love
Popcorn
Stardrop Sorbet
Dislike
Black Licorice
Cotton Candy
Jawbreaker
Joja Cola
JojaCorn
Rock Candy
Sour Slimes
Like
Everything else
Heart Events
Anytime
At any friendship level greater than zero friendship points, you may receive a gift in the mail from Kent. The chance of receiving a gift in the mail increases as your friendship with Kent increases.
Details 
Three Hearts I
Enter Kent's home while he and Jodi are both there.
Details 
Three Hearts II
After reaching three hearts with Kent, he will send the player a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Seven Hearts
After reaching seven hearts with Kent, he will send the player a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Quotes
Regular 
Events 
Trivia
Kent has PTSD from the time he's served in the war. This can be noted by his reaction to the popcorn sound in his Three Heart Event and his dislike of open fields in the Flower Dance. Kent can also explain in a dialogue to the player that his fatigue is due to difficulty sleeping, a symptom of PTSD.
Despite his dislike of the sound of popcorn, it is a loved concession when given to him at the Movie Theater. This is most likely because he still loves the snack, but if he were around while it's being cooked it would trigger his PTSD.
The chevrons on Kent's sleeve can be interpreted in several ways. Several countries use chevrons (whether pointed upward or downward) to indicate the rank of Corporal, including America, Australia, Brazil, Ireland, and the United Kingdom. The French, Italian, Korean, and Turkish military forces use variations of gold (or red) chevrons to indicate the rank of Sergeant. In the Chinese and Japanese military forces, two chevrons below a star or other symbol indicate the rank of Private First Class. The Russian military used chevrons to indicate various ranks in various branches until 2010.
In a dialogue that occurs on Fridays, Sam reveals that Kent used to be a garbage man when they lived in Zuzu City.
In a dialogue that occurs on Mondays in Summer, Sam says that Kent took him on trips to the desert when he was younger.
Despite the fact Kent likes eggs, he tells you during the Egg Festival that he isn't a big fan of eggs.
Quests
"A Soldier's Star: Kent will send you a letter on the 15th of Summer, year 2, requesting a Starfruit. The reward is 500g and 1 Friendship heart.
Kent may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
Kent is to be gifted the War Memento in The Pirate's Wife quest.
Portraits
History
1.4: Fixed bug where all recipes would be sent at 3 friendship hearts.
1.5: Added 2 new portraits.
1.6: Added winter portraits. Added custom gift dialogue.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs