Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Krobus
Information
Birthday  Winter 1
Lives In The Sewers
Address Krobus' Shop
Marriage No, but can become a roommate
Loved Gifts
Diamond
Iridium Bar
Monster Compendium
Monster Musk
Pumpkin
Void Egg
Void Mayonnaise
Wild Horseradish
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Shop
2.1 Fixed Stock
2.2 Rotating Stock
3 Relationships
4 Gifts
4.1 Love
4.2 Like
4.3 Neutral
4.4 Dislike
4.5 Hate
5 Movies & Concessions
6 Roommate
7 Heart Events
7.1 Three Hearts
7.2 Fourteen Hearts
8 Quotes
9 Quests
10 Portraits
11 Trivia
12 Bugs
13 Gallery
14 History
“ “...Have you encountered others like me, in the mines? I'm sorry if they were hostile towards you. You see, we've learned to fear humans... there have been too many... unpleasant encounters.”
— Krobus
Krobus is the only friendly monster players will encounter, however he still refers to other hostile monsters as his friends. He is a shadow person who lives in the Sewers. He sells a variety of rare goods. He is also available as a roommate.
Schedule
Krobus can always be found in the Sewers once the Player obtains the Rusty Key.
Shop
Krobus' Shop is open all hours every day, even festival days.
Fixed Stock
Image Name Description Quantity Unit Price
Void Egg A jet-black egg with red flecks. It's warm to the touch. Unlimited 5,000g
Void Essence It's quivering with dark energy. 10 100g
Solar Essence The glowing face is warm to the touch. 10 80g
Sign Of The Vessel A decorative piece for your farm. Unlimited 350g
Monster Fireplace Can be placed inside your house. Unlimited 20,000g
Stardrop A mysterious fruit that empowers those who eat it. The flavor is like a dream... a powerful personal experience, yet difficult to describe to others. 1 (available until purchased) 20,000g
Crystal Floor Recipe Blueprints for crafting Crystal Floor 1 (available until purchased) 500g
Wicked Statue Recipe Blueprints for crafting Wicked Statue 1 (available until purchased) 1,000g
Butterfly Powder Sprinkle on a pet to remove them from your farm. The process is irreversible. Unlimited 20,000g
Wizard Catalogue M. Rasmodius' private furniture collection. 1 (available until purchased) 150,000g
Return Scepter The golden handle quivers with raw potential. Hold this scepter to the sky and return home at will. 1 (available until purchased) 2,000,000g
Rotating Stock
Image Name Description Day Quantity Unit Price
Slime A shimmering, gelatinous glob with no smell. Monday 50 10g
Omni Geode A blacksmith can break this open for you. These geodes contain a wide variety of minerals. Tuesday 1 300g
Fish or Magnet
Albacore • Bullhead • Chub • Dorado • Halibut • Lingcod • Shad • Sturgeon • Tiger Trout • Tilapia • Magnet
Note: Each item has a 1/11 (≈9%) chance to appear.
Wednesday 5 200g
Mixed Seeds There's a little bit of everything here. Plant them and see what grows! Thursday 10 30g
Iridium Sprinkler Waters the 24 adjacent tiles every morning. Friday 1 10,000g
Cooked Dishes
List of Dishes 
Note: Bread has a 2/51 (≈3.9%) chance to appear, the other items have a 1/51 (≈2%) chance to appear. The price for each is random.
Saturday 5 50g -500g
Bat Wing The material is surprisingly delicate. Sunday 10 30g
Relationships
Krobus is almost never seen outside interacting with other villagers. He dislikes dwarves, stating that a 1,000 year war between the dwarves and his people recently ended. He believes if the dwarves knew where he was, they'd send an assassin.
The Wizard is aware of his presence and intervenes to prevent conflicts.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Krobus up to two gifts per week (plus one on his birthday), which will raise or lower his friendship with you. Gifts on his birthday ( 1 Winter) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved, liked, or neutral gifts, Krobus responds
“ “Oh, a gift to remember the day that I hatched! Thank you!”
For disliked or hated gifts, Krobus responds
“ “Oh... is this what you call a 'birthday present'? I don't understand humans...”
Love
“ “This is an amazing gift. For my people it is a great honor to receive something like this.”
Monster Compendium
“ “Hey, look! All my friends are in here!
Wait a minute, is that me?”
Monster Musk
“ “A gift of lovely perfume? Oh, (players name)... I'm blushing, but you probably can't notice...”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Is that Stardrop Tea? Thank you! One drop makes my room smell good for the whole day.”
Void Mayonnaise
“ “This smells delicious! I'll eat half, and use the other half to moisturize my body!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Loves
Diamond A rare and valuable gem. Mining
Iridium Bar A bar of pure iridium. Furnace
Monster Compendium Monsters have a small chance to drop double loot. Monsters
Monster Musk Spray this on to draw more monsters out of hiding. Crafting
Bookseller
Pumpkin A fall favorite, grown for its crunchy seeds and delicately flavored flesh. As a bonus, the hollow shell can be carved into a festive decoration. Farming - Fall
Void Egg A jet-black egg with red flecks. It's warm to the touch. Void Chicken
Krobus' shop
Void Mayonnaise A thick, black paste that smells like burnt hair. Mayonnaise Machine
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Like
“ “Thank you very much.”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Likes (except Life Elixir and All Cooking excluding Seafoam Pudding & Strange Bun)
Gold Bar A bar of pure gold. Furnace
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - The Mines
Seafoam Pudding This briny pudding will really get you into the maritime mindset! Cooking
Flounder (1)
Midnight Carp (1)
Squid Ink (1)
Strange Bun What's inside? Cooking
Wheat Flour (1)
Periwinkle (1)
Void Mayonnaise (1)
Neutral
“ “Thank you.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals (except Monster Compendium)
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
All Fruit (except Fruit Tree Fruit & Salmonberry)
All Milk
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Dislike
“ “Humans have... interesting tastes.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Gold Bar, Iridium Bar, & Void Egg)
All Cooking (except Bread, Fried Egg, Seafoam Pudding, & Strange Bun)
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Life Elixir Restores health to full. Crafting
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Salmonberry A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest. Foraging - Spring
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
Hate
“ “Oh... Um. I guess I'll accept it...
”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates (except Monster Musk, Seafoam Pudding, Strange Bun, & Void Mayonnaise)
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
N/A
Like
Mysterium
Dislike
It Howls In The Rain
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Wumbus
Love
Black Licorice
Dislike
Apple Slices
Cappuccino Mousse Cake
Chocolate Popcorn
Cotton Candy
Ice Cream Sandwich
Jawbreaker
Joja Cola
JojaCorn
Rock Candy
Star Cookie
Stardrop Sorbet
Like
Everything else
Roommate
If the player is not married, Krobus will move into the farmhouse three days after accepting a void ghost pendant. Like the marriage candidates, he will add his own room to the right of the bedroom. He will not set up an area in the space behind the farmhouse.
Krobus leaves the Farmhouse only on rainy days, when he will stand on the front porch. At 13 hearts, he will give the player a Stardrop, like a spouse, and may change Wallpaper or Flooring or add Furniture like a spouse.
Although the player's relationship with Krobus is platonic, the game's roommate mechanics are almost identical to the marriage mechanics, with the following exceptions:
Kissing is replaced with hugging.
Instead of a heart emoji appearing when kissing, a smile emoji appears when hugging.
No ceremony takes place.
Krobus will never get jealous if the player gives a gift to a marriage candidate.
Being roommates with Krobus won't stop the group 10-heart events.
Instead of divorce, Krobus can be evicted for free. However, the player still needs to do this through the book in the Mayor's Manor. After Krobus moves out, he is silent towards the player and will refuse gifts.
As with an ex-spouse, the Dark Shrine of Memory can be used to erase Krobus' memories of the player.
You cannot have or adopt children with Krobus. However, he helps with raising your existing children from previous marriages.
Krobus does not do chores like a spouse would.
Krobus does not sleep, but he will stand in the center of his room at 10:00 P.M., He can still be interacted with, however, unlike spouses.
After Krobus moves into the Farmhouse, he is replaced in the Sewers by a chest, which sells his usual items.
On rainy mornings, Krobus may gift you a Sea Urchin, Void Egg, Void Mayonnaise, or Void Salmon. On non-rainy days, he may gift you a Fried Eel, Lucky Lunch, or Poppyseed Muffin. He may also gift you a Strange Bun regardless of the current weather.
Krobus' room in the Farmhouse
Krobus replaced by a chest in the Sewers
Heart Events
Three Hearts
After reaching 3 hearts with Krobus, he will send you a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Fourteen Hearts
Enter the Beach between 8pm and 1am on a non-rainy day.
Details 
Quotes
Details 
Roommate 

Quests
Dark Talisman: After the Wizard requests his Magic Ink, the player must talk to Krobus, who will open the force field blocking the passage to the Mutant Bug Lair, where the talisman can be found.
"A Winter Mystery": Sent by mail the day after triggering a cutscene by entering the Bus Stop from the Farm during Winter between 6am and 4pm. To complete the quest, interact with a bush to the left of the Community Center in the north of Pelican Town. A cutscene ensues, during which a "Shadow Guy" (who may or may not be Krobus) gives the player a Magnifying Glass. This allows the player to collect Secret Notes.
Portraits
Trivia
Krobus states that his name means "bridge-crosser" in his language.
Krobus states that he remains silent on Fridays out of respect for Yoba. His normal Friday dialogue is simply "..." Krobus will speak on Fridays under certain circumstances.
Rainy days
First meeting
Attempting to give him a gift after he has been evicted as a roommate
Speaking to him about the Dark Talisman quest
Gifting him a Void Ghost Pendant
Attempting to give Krobus a Movie Ticket on Friday results in a dialogue saying "Krobus looks puzzled..." Krobus will not attend movies on Fridays.
Krobus' Tuesday dialogue changed from "I am too sensitive to sunlight to go out during the day." to "I am too sensitive to sunlight to go out on most days." with v1.3. This change is most likely due to the addition of the "A Winter Mystery" Quest, in which a "Shadow Guy" is seen outdoors during Winter.
Krobus' people are said to have crossed into the physical plane after "a great catastrophe."
Despite being considered a roommate, if there are monsters inside the house, such as slimes, he will still say, "Um... Honey? Why are there monsters in the house?"
Krobus is the only NPC who dislikes Stardrop Sorbet as a Movie Theater snack. However, he still loves Stardrop Tea.
His dialogue when gifted Stardrop Tea implies he likes its scent rather than taste: "Is that Stardrop Tea? Thank you! One drop makes my room smell good for the whole day."
Krobus says that he normally does not sleep. However, he will fall asleep while watching any movie except Mysterium.
While watching Mysterium, Krobus has negative dialogue about the depiction of shadow people within the movie. However, he still likes the movie overall and gains friendship from watching it.
When drinking Void Mayonnaise in front of Krobus, he will respond by saying "Yummie!"
Bugs
If multiple players open Krobus' shop in Multiplayer simultaneously, the limited quantity of items can be bypassed (multiplied by number of players). As an example, this allows two players on Friday to purchase two Iridium Sprinklers instead of one, if neither player has already purchased the Sprinkler.
Gallery
A Picture of Krobus in the Sewers
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Now sells Return Scepter and Void Eggs and offers progress in the Dark Talisman quest.
1.3.27: Added Sign Of The Vessel and Monster Fireplace to shop stock. Added "A Winter Mystery" quest. Changed Tuesday dialogue.
1.4: Added as a potential roommate if the player is unmarried. Removed exploit allowing multiple purchases of fish and cooked dishes by closing and re-opening the shop menu.
1.4.4: Krobus no longer gets jealous.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Krobus now loves Monster Musk and likes Strange Bun. Butterfly Powder and the Wizard Catalogue are added to fixed stock. The Dwarf's 50 Friendship Points event (which involves Krobus) can no longer happen on Fridays.
1.6.3: Added Krobus Portrait.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Categories: NPCsStores