Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Leo
Information
Birthday  Summer 26
Lives In Ginger Island
Address Hut (<6 )
Treehouse (≥6 )
Marriage No
Loved Gifts
Duck Feather
Mango
Ostrich Egg
Parrot Egg
Poi
Contents
1 Schedule
1.1 Fewer than 6 Hearts
1.2 6+ Hearts
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Two Hearts
5.2 Three Hearts
5.3 Four Hearts
5.4 Six Hearts
5.5 Seven Hearts
5.6 Nine Hearts
6 Quotes
7 Portraits
8 Trivia
9 History
“ “One time... I was at the top of the volcano at night, and I saw lights far, far away. I wonder if there are other bird families out there?”
— Leo
Leo is a boy who initially lives on Ginger Island. His parents were lost at sea, and he considers the parrots who inhabit the island to be his family. Initially, he is too shy to speak to the player, until the player "makes friends" with the parrots of the island by collecting 10 Golden Walnuts.
When the player reaches six hearts of friendship with Leo, he moves to the mainland of Stardew Valley, where he becomes friends with Linus, Jas and Vincent.
Schedule
Fewer than 6 Hearts
Leo lives on Ginger Island and doesn’t leave until the player has reached 6 hearts of friendship with him.
Expand
Rain
Expand
Tuesday
Expand
Sunday
Expand
Regular Schedule
6+ Hearts
Leo lives in a treehouse in The Mountain, and visits Ginger Island on Sundays and some Mondays.
Expand
 Spring
Expand
 Summer
Expand
 Fall
Expand
 Winter
Relationships
On Ginger Island, Leo is friends with the parrots whom he considers his family. After Leo moves to Stardew Valley, he bonds with Linus and begins attending Penny's lessons with Vincent and Jas. He also has a crush on Jas, based on one of his quotes.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Leo up to two gifts per week (plus one on his birthday), which will raise or lower his friendship with you. Gifts on his birthday ( 26 Summer) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved or liked gifts, Leo responds
“ “A birthday gift? That's very kind of you! I love it.”
“ “You remembered my birthday! Thank you. This is great.”
For neutral gifts, Leo responds
“ “Oh, a birthday gift! Thank you.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Leo responds
“ “Oh... It's for my birthday? ... Thanks.”
Love
“ “I love this. I'm going to put it in my nest.”
Parrot Egg
“ “This is a precious egg... A baby! I'm glad you brought it to me, I'll keep it safe.”
Stardrop Tea
“ “ Wow, tastes just like golden walnuts! This is great!”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Duck Feather It's so colorful. Ducks
Mango A big, sweet tropical fruit with a unique flavor. Mango Tree
Ostrich Egg It may be the world's largest egg. Ostrich
Parrot Egg Summons a level X parrot companion, who grants you a Y chance to find gold coins when slaying monsters. Slaying monsters
Poi A traditional food with a delicate, sweet flavor when eaten fresh. Cooking
Taro Root (4)
Like
“ “Are you sure? This is so nice...”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Likes (except Beer, Coffee, Life Elixir, Mead, Pale Ale, Pickles, Piña Colada, Wine, and Cooking other than Bread, Fried Egg, Poi, Mango Sticky Rice, & Triple Shot Espresso)
Dragon Tooth These are rumored to be the teeth of ancient serpents. The enamel is made of pure iridium! Monster drops, Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Mango Sticky Rice Sweet mango and coconut transforms this rice into something very special. Cooking
Mango (1)
Coconut (1)
Rice (1)
Nautilus Shell An ancient shell. Foraging
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - Mines
Sea Urchin A slow-moving, spiny creature that some consider a delicacy. Foraging
Spice Berry It fills the air with a pungent aroma. Foraging
Neutral
“ “I accept your gift.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals (except Duck Feather, Hops, Nautilus Shell, & Rainbow Shell)
All Eggs (except Ostrich Egg and Void Egg)*
All Fish (except Carp & Snail)
All Fruit (except Fruit Tree fruit, Mango, Salmonberry, & Spice Berry)
All Milk
Coffee It smells delicious. This is sure to give you a boost. Keg, The Stardrop Saloon
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Dislike
“ “Oh... I don't know if I can digest this...”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Oil, Parrot Egg, Unmilled Rice, & Fish)
All Cooked Dishes (other than Bread, Fried Egg, Mango Sticky Rice, Poi, & Triple Shot Espresso)
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Life Elixir Restores health to full. Crafting
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Pickles A jar of your home-made pickles. Preserves Jar
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Salmonberry A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest. Foraging - Spring
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
Hate
“ “*sniff* *sniff*... Why are you giving this to me? Do you want me to bury it for you?”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Hates (except Dragon Tooth & Sea Urchin)
Beer Drink in moderation. Keg
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging
Hops A bitter, tangy flower used to flavor beer. Crops
Mead A fermented beverage made from honey. Drink in moderation. Keg
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging
Oil All purpose cooking oil. Oil Maker
Pale Ale Drink in moderation. Keg
Piña Colada Drink in moderation. The Beach Resort on Ginger Island
Triple Shot Espresso It's more potent than regular coffee! Cooking
Coffee (3)
Unmilled Rice Rice in its rawest form. Run this through a mill to increase the value. Crops
Wine Drink in moderation. Keg
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
Like
It Howls In The Rain
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Mysterium
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Wumbus
Dislike
N/A
Love
None
Dislike
None
Like
Everything
Heart Events
Two Hearts
Enter Island West on a sunny day between 6am and 6pm.
Expand
Details 
Three Hearts
After reaching three hearts with Leo, he sends the player a recipe in the mail.
Expand
Details 
Four Hearts
Enter Island North on a sunny day between 6am and 6pm.
Expand
Details 
Six Hearts
Enter Island South on a sunny day between 6am and 6pm.
Expand
Details 
Seven Hearts
After reaching seven hearts with Leo, he sends the player a recipe in the mail.
Expand
Details 
Nine Hearts
Enter the Mountain on a non-rainy day between 6am and 7pm.
Expand
Details 
Quotes
Expand
Regular 


Expand
Events 
Portraits
Trivia
Leo may still tell you it's nice to see you on the island again when you're both on the mainland, particularly when it's raining and his normal schedule dictates he would be on the island that day.
In the player's initial dialogue with Leo, if asked how old he is, he responds "We don't think like that. We say... 'How many golden walnuts have you eaten?' ...I've eaten 3,729 golden walnuts."
Despite the ambiguity of his age, Leo is classified within the game's code as a child.
Despite not disclosing his age in human years, he knows his birthday (26 Summer) and reacts accordingly to birthday gifts.
If you have missed Leo's four heart event, he gives you the option to view it by talking to him on the mainland.
History
1.5: Introduced.
1.5.3: Now likes Mango Sticky Rice and is neutral to Coffee as gifts.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Added winter portraits. Added new weather dialogue.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs