Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Lewis
Information
Birthday  Spring 7
Lives In Pelican Town
Address Mayor's Manor
Marriage No
Clinic Visit  Fall 9
Loved Gifts
Autumn's Bounty
Glazed Yams
Green Tea
Hot Pepper
Vegetable Medley
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Anytime
5.2 Three Hearts
5.3 Six Hearts
5.4 Seven Hearts
6 Quotes
7 Quests
8 Portraits
9 History
“ “I've been Mayor of Pelican Town for over twenty years! No one ever runs against me when it's time for an election. I like to think that it means I'm doing my job well. I like being Mayor.”
— Lewis
Lewis is the mayor of Pelican Town. Along with Robin, he greets the player when they move to the Valley and explains a little bit about life on the farm. Lewis is known to have some sort of relations with Marnie, as the shorts he lost and brown suspenders are found in her bedroom. Furthermore, a note can be found in his bedroom in the lower left on a shelf under a coffee mug, believed to be from her. The note is signed "-M".
When a festival takes place, the player will receive a letter in their mailbox, usually from Lewis, that says where and when it takes place, as well as any additional requirements.
Schedule
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Lewis may randomly spend the day there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Lewis will immediately go home to bed. Lewis never visits the Resort on Festival days or his checkup day at Harvey's Clinic.
 Spring
 Summer
 Fall
 Winter
Relationships
As nobody has challenged Lewis for his title of mayor in the twenty years he has held the position, he may have a good relationship with everyone living in Pelican Town. He was apparently good friends with the player's grandfather; if the player speaks to him while he is at The Stardrop Saloon, Lewis states that he will be having an extra drink in their grandfather's honor.
In parallel with his work as mayor, he is also involved in the Stardew Valley Agricultural Fund. He may send the player a letter that includes money from the fund "to help you continue your good work", such as using it to buy seeds.
He has never been married and has no family; all he lives for is being mayor. He sometimes questions if it was worth it.
Lewis is particularly good friends with Marnie, as shown in the "Mayor's Shorts" story quest. He can also sometimes be found inside Marnie's Ranch saying, "I'm just here to make sure all of Marnie's business needs are met." Additionally, his and Marnie's 6-heart event confirms that they are in a relationship, although he does not want the relationship to become public knowledge.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Lewis up to two gifts per week (plus one on his birthday), which will raise or lower his friendship with you. Gifts on his birthday ( 7 Spring) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved, liked, or neutral gifts, Lewis responds
“ “Ah, you remembered the old mayor's birthday. That's very thoughtful of you. And it's a nice gift!”
For disliked or hated gifts, Lewis responds
“ “Ah, you remembered the old mayor's birthday... what's this?
Um... well you know what they say, 'it's the thought that counts'.”
Love
“ “Wow, this is my favorite! Thank you!”
Stardrop Tea
“ “I've sampled many teas in my life, but none are quite so rare and special as this. Thanks!”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Autumn's Bounty A taste of the season. Cooking
Yam (1)
Pumpkin (1)
Glazed Yams Sweet and satisfying... The sugar gives it a hint of caramel. Cooking
Yam (1)
Sugar (1)
Green Tea A pleasant, energizing beverage made from lightly processed tea leaves. Keg
Tea Leaves (1)
Hot Pepper Fiery hot with a hint of sweetness. Farming - Summer
Vegetable Medley This is very nutritious. Cooking
Tomato (1)
Beet (1)
Like
“ “Thanks, this is great!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes
Blueberry A popular berry reported to have many health benefits. The blue skin has the highest nutrient concentration. Farming - Summer
Cactus Fruit The sweet fruit of the prickly pear cactus. Foraging - The Desert
Coconut A seed of the coconut palm. It has many culinary uses. Foraging - The Desert
Neutral
“ “That's very nice of you. Thanks.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
All Fruit (except Blueberry, Cactus Fruit, Coconut, Fruit Tree Fruit, Hot Pepper, & Salmonberry)
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Dislike
“ “Well, I guess it's the thought that counts...”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes
All Milk
Salmonberry A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest. Foraging - Spring
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Hate
“ “This makes me sick. What a horrendous gift.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - The Mines
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
Like
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Wumbus
Dislike
It Howls In The Rain
Mysterium
Love
Jasmine Tea
Stardrop Sorbet
Dislike
Black Licorice
Joja Cola
JojaCorn
Sour Slimes
Like
Everything else
Heart Events
Anytime
At any friendship level greater than zero friendship points, you may receive gold in the mail from Lewis. The chance of receiving gold in the mail increases as your friendship with Lewis increases.
Details 
Three Hearts
After reaching 3 hearts with Lewis, he will send you a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Six Hearts
On a sunny day, enter the town between 7pm and 11pm.
Note: Only happens if Marnie is also at 6 hearts.
Details 
Seven Hearts
After reaching 7 hearts with Lewis, he will send you a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Quotes
Regular 

Events 
Quests
"Mayor's Shorts": Lewis will send the player a letter on the 3rd of Summer explaining that he lost his shorts and offers a reward to anyone who can find and return them to him discreetly. The player earns 750g and 1 Friendship heart for completing the quest.
If instead the player chooses to place the shorts in their Grange display during Fall, Mayor Lewis will instead be upset, calling it a "sick joke" and pay the player off with 750 Star Tokens, demanding they return his shorts the following day. However, the player can decide to keep them and repeat this the following year, without loss in friendship points.
If instead the player chooses to add the shorts as a "special ingredient" to the soup present at the Luau festival, a unique dialogue involving the Governor and Lewis transpires. This does not affect friendship with the Valley's Villagers.
"Mayor's Need": Lewis will send the player a letter on the 21st of Summer in year 2 asking them to bring him a bottle of Truffle Oil. The reward is 750g and 1 Friendship heart.
Lewis may request that the player slay a random number of Monsters or bring him a random item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward for slaying monsters varies by the number and type of monster, but is always an amount of gold. The reward for completing an item delivery request is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
"Crop Order": On the Special Orders board in front of the Mayor's Manor, Lewis may randomly request that the player harvest and ship 100 season-dependent crops. The reward is gold equal to 50% of the sell price of the crop and a Mini-Shipping Bin.
Portraits
History
1.4: Added Green Tea as loved item. Fixed bug where all recipes would be sent at 3 friendship hearts.
1.5: Added new portrait.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Added winter portraits.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs