Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Lightning Rod
Collects energy from lightning storms and turns it into battery packs.
Information
Source Crafting
Season Spring • Summer • Fall
Sell Price Cannot be sold
Crafting
Recipe Source
Foraging (Level 6)
Ingredients
Iron Bar (1)
Refined Quartz (1)
Bat Wing (5)
The Lightning Rod creates a Battery Pack the day after getting hit by lightning during a storm. It is not necessary for the player to be on the farm when the lightning strike happens.
Lighting Rods also protect The Farm, because lightning that is not intercepted can strike Fruit Trees or destroy Crops, Trees and Farm Debris. Since rods do not protect a specific area, the exact placement of a rod on the farm has no bearing on its chance to intercept a lightning strike. A Lightning Rod has a very good chance of intercepting a lightning bolt if it isn't already processing one.[1]
After being hit, the Lightning Rod changes to a "processing" state for the remainder of the day and will not intercept any additional strikes, so multiple rods are needed to intercept additional strikes. The number of lightning strikes during one day is random, and increases with higher daily luck.[2]
A lightning rod is the reward for completing the 10,000 Bundle in the Vault.
Contents
1 Chance to Intercept
2 Notes
3 References
4 History
Chance to Intercept
The chance that a lightning strike will be intercepted is inversely related to the percentage of lightning rods on the farm that are currently holding a charge (either pulsing or holding a battery pack). The exact probability is chance to intercept = 1 - (number of charged lightning rods / total number of lightning rods)²[2]. That is, if none of the lightning rods are currently holding a charge, a lightning strike is 100% guaranteed to be intercepted. If 50% of the lightning rods are charged, a lightning strike has a 75% chance to be intercepted. If 90% of the lightning rods are charged, a strike has only a 19% chance to be intercepted. At least one lightning rod must be on the farm to have any chance of intercepting a strike.
A non-intercepted lightning strike has a base 25% chance of hitting a feature on the farm, influenced by daily luck and luck buffs.
Notes
Though it is possible to place lightning rods outside of the farm map, they will never get hit by lightning there, and thus will produce no battery packs.
Storms (and thus lightning) never occur in Winter. Storms never occur on Ginger Island.
More lightning will strike the longer the player stays awake, necessitating more lightning rods and giving potential to produce more Battery Packs.
Placing a lightning rod on a Grass Starter will cause animals to be unable to eat the grass, making the grass stay in place and produce more grass every day without ever being entirely consumed by farm animals. This also works with decorations.
References
↑ "v1.07 beta branch Bugs/Discussion"
↑ 2.0 2.1 See Utility.performLightningUpdate() in the game code.
History
1.4: Lightning Rods are now ready to harvest the day after a storm, instead of 24 hours later. Lightning Rods can now be stacked in a player's inventory and in chests.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Category: Craftable items