Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Limestone
A very common type of stone. It's not worth very much.
Information
Source
Geode
Omni Geode
Coral (Fish Pond)
Sell Price 15g
Gemologist Profession (+30% Sell Price) 19g
Limestone is a mineral that can be found in the Geode and the Omni Geode. A Coral Fish Pond may produce 1 Limestone when the population of the pond reaches 9.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Recipes
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Wizard
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy
Bundles
Limestone is not used in any bundles.
Recipes
Limestone is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Limestone is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with Cloth in the feed to create a Shirt. It is a gray dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed.
Quests
1 Limestone may be requested by Bullhead or Largemouth Bass in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 5 to 7.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests. Can be produced by Fish Ponds.
1.6: Is no longer a possible Midnight Carp Fish Pond request.
Minerals
Foraged Minerals Earth Crystal • Fire Quartz • Frozen Tear • Quartz
Gems Amethyst • Aquamarine • Diamond • Emerald • Jade • Prismatic Shard • Ruby • Topaz
Geode Minerals Aerinite • Alamite • Baryte • Basalt • Bixite • Calcite • Celestine • Dolomite • Esperite • Fairy Stone • Fire Opal • Fluorapatite • Geminite • Ghost Crystal • Granite • Helvite • Hematite • Jagoite • Jamborite • Jasper • Kyanite • Lemon Stone • Limestone • Lunarite • Malachite • Marble • Mudstone • Nekoite • Neptunite • Obsidian • Ocean Stone • Opal • Orpiment • Petrified Slime • Pyrite • Sandstone • Slate • Soapstone • Star Shards • Thunder Egg • Tigerseye
Geodes Geode • Frozen Geode • Magma Geode • Omni Geode
Category: Geode Minerals