Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Linus
Information
Birthday  Winter 3
Lives In The Mountain
Address Tent
Marriage No
Loved Gifts
Blueberry Tart
Cactus Fruit
Coconut
Dish O' The Sea
The Alleyway Buffet
Yam
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Anytime
5.2 Zero Hearts
5.3 Three Hearts
5.4 Four Hearts
5.5 Seven Hearts
5.6 Eight Hearts
6 Quotes
7 Quests
8 Trivia
9 Portraits
10 History
“ “You can learn to survive in the wild. I have. I think we all have a hidden urge to return to nature. It's just a little scary to make the leap.”
— Linus
Linus is a villager who lives in a small tent west of the Mines, on the Mountains north of Pelican Town.
Schedule
Linus never visits the Beach Resort on Ginger Island.
Shown below are Linus' schedules prioritized highest to lowest within each season. For example, if it is raining, that schedule overrides all others below it.
Spring 16 (Bus Service Restored)
Green Rain (Year 1)
Rain
Winter 15
Spring
Summer
Fall
Winter
Relationships
Linus generally considers himself an outcast of the town who feels unwelcome and misunderstood, but wishes to be accepted. He does not trust strangers or seem to socialize with many villagers. He tells the Player of incidents in which his tent was vandalized or destroyed. During festivals, he is usually alone and away from the main festivities.
Linus and the Wizard stand next to each other at the Spirit's Eve festival.
Robin mentions that she does not mind Linus living behind their house as long as he does not bother them.
In Winter, Penny asks the player if they know Linus and expresses sympathy for him because "everyone ignores him". Emily expresses sympathy for Linus on Tuesdays in Summer, saying, "I wish everyone could learn to be accepting of others."
During Leo's six heart event, Linus, Willy, and the Player succeed in inviting Leo to live on the mainland, where he becomes neighbors with Linus. Linus and Leo bond over their love of nature, with Linus teaching him everything he knows and Leo occasionally referring to him as "Uncle Linus". They stand together at the Feast of the Winter Star.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Linus up to two gifts per week (plus one on his birthday), which will raise or lower his friendship with you. Gifts on his birthday ( 3 Winter) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved or liked gifts, Linus responds
“ “A birthday gift? That's very kind of you! I love it.”
“ “You remembered my birthday! Thank you. This is great.”
For neutral gifts, Linus responds
“ “Oh, a birthday gift! Thank you.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Linus responds
“ “Oh... It's for my birthday? ... Thanks.”
Love
“ “This is wonderful! You've really made my day special.”
Stardrop Tea
“ “This means a lot to me, (Name). I'll save it for a quiet day in the tent. Thank you!”
The Alleyway Buffet
“ “I don't usually read books... But this one is right up my 'alley'... Thank you!”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Blueberry Tart It's subtle and refreshing. Cooking
Blueberry (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Sugar (1)
Egg (1)
Cactus Fruit The sweet fruit of the prickly pear cactus. Foraging - The Desert
Coconut A seed of the coconut palm. It has many culinary uses. Foraging - The Desert
Dish O' The Sea This'll keep you warm in the cold sea air. Cooking
Sardine (2)
Hashbrowns (1)
The Alleyway Buffet You have a greater chance to find items in the trash. Books
Yam A starchy tuber with a lot of culinary versatility. Farming - Fall
Like
“ “This is a great gift. Thank you!”
Most Edible Foraged Items (except Flowers, Fruit, Seaweed, or Vegetables)
“ “That's a good find! I'm always happy when eating wild food. Thank you.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes (except Treasure Chest, Foraged Minerals, & Gems other than Diamond & Prismatic Shard)
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
All Fruit (except Cactus Fruit & Coconut)
All Milk
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Spring Onion These grow wild during the spring. Foraging - Spring
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Neutral
“ “A gift? How nice.”
Any Fish
“ “Ah, that looks fresh. I'll be eating good tonight!”
Wild Bait
“ “Let me see... it looks perfect. You're a good student, (Name).”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals
All Fish (except Snail)
Wild Bait A unique recipe from Linus that gives you a chance to catch two fish at once. Crafting
Dislike
“ “Hmm... This doesn't really do much for me.”
Cave Carrot
“ “That's a good find! I'm always happy when eating wild food. Thank you.”
Treasure Chest
“ “No, thank you. I have no desire for money... In fact, I think it's cursed.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Fish & Spring Onion)
All Foraged Minerals
All Gems (except Diamond & Prismatic Shard)
Treasure Chest* Wow, it's loaded with treasure! This is sure to fetch a good price. Fishing, Artifact Trove, SquidFest, Secret Note #16, Fish Pond
*If the player attempts to gift Linus a Treasure Chest, he will give it back to them.
Hate
“ “Why would you give this to me? Do you think I like junk just because I live in a tent? That's terrible.”
Red Mushroom or Sap
“ “That's a good find! I'm always happy when eating wild food. Thank you.”
Snail
“ “Ah, that looks fresh. I'll be eating good tonight!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates (except Carp and Wild Bait)
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
N/A
Like
N/A
Dislike
It Howls In The Rain
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Mysterium
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Wumbus
Love
Salmon Burger
Stardrop Sorbet
Dislike
Black Licorice
Joja Cola
JojaCorn
Like
Everything else
Heart Events
Anytime
At any friendship level greater than zero friendship points, you may receive a gift in the mail from Linus. The chance of receiving a gift in the mail increases as your friendship with Linus increases.
Details 
Zero Hearts
After you have 50 Friendship points with Linus, enter the town between 8pm - 12am on a day that's not raining. (This event cannot trigger before Spring 7, Year 1)
Details 
Three Hearts
After reaching 3 hearts with Linus he will send you a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Four Hearts
Enter the mountain area near his tent between 8pm - 12am on a day that's not raining.
Details 
Seven Hearts
After reaching seven hearts with Linus, he will send you a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Eight Hearts
Exit Robin's house on a day that's not raining between 9am and 5pm.
Details 


Quotes
Regular 
Events 

Special 

Quests
"Blackberry Basket": Linus sends the player a letter on Fall 8 that says he lost his blackberry basket. The reward for returning it to him is one heart of friendship (250 friendship points).
Linus may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
"Community Cleanup": On the Special Orders board in front of the Mayor's Manor, Linus may randomly request that the player collect 20 trash items and place them in the bin at the train platform. The reward is 500g, 250 friendship points, and the Fiber Seeds recipe.
Trivia
If the player speaks to Linus, he occasionally mentions he has ventured deep into the Mines.
The campfire in front of Linus' tent can be toggled on or off by the player. This seems to have no impact on the game, such as special dialogues or an effect on friendship. Linus does not re-light or put out the fire.
Linus is one of the villagers who may find the player if they pass out at 2:00am.
If he catches the player rummaging in a Garbage Can, Linus' friendship with the player increases by 5 points, unlike when the player is caught by other villagers, whose friendship decreases by 25 points.
Prior to v1.6, this was only possible on Winter 15 while Linus was on his way to or from the Night Market, as those were the only times he was close enough to a garbage can for this interaction to occur.
It is also possible on Spring 16, when he stands by a trash can at the Desert Festival.
If Linus sends the player a Catfish as a gift in the mail, he will say the mountain lake has been kind to him. However, Catfish cannot be caught in the mountain lake.
While Linus and the Wizard are unreachable by the player at the Spirit's Eve festival, they both have dialogue in the game's data files. In Linus', he calls the Wizard an "old friend."
If the Treasure Chest is gifted to Linus, he will not accept the gift and will give it back to the player.
Portraits
History
1.3.27: Added eight-heart event.
1.4: Fixed bug where all recipes would be sent at three friendship hearts.
1.5: Added two new bathing portraits.
1.6: Linus is now neutral towards Carp and Wild Bait. Added custom gift reactions. Added winter portraits.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs