Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Lobster Bisque
This delicate soup is a secret family recipe of Willy's.
Information
Source Cooking
Buff(s)
Fishing (+3)
Max Energy (+50)
Buff Duration
16m 47s
Energy / Health
225
101
Sell Price
205g
Qi Seasoning
405
182
307g
Recipe
Recipe Source(s)
The Queen of Sauce
14 Winter, Year 2
Willy (Mail - 9+ )
Ingredients
Lobster (1)
Milk (1)
Lobster Bisque is a cooked dish. It is prepared using either the kitchen inside an upgraded farmhouse or a Cookout Kit. It can randomly be found at the Traveling Cart for 615–1,025g. Five can be purchased from Gus's shop at the Desert Festival for 30 Calico Eggs each. One Lobster Bisque may be received from opening a Mystery Box.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Tailoring
4 Quests
5 Trivia
6 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Leah •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Dislike  Krobus •  Leo
Bundles
Lobster Bisque is not used in any bundles.
Tailoring
Lobster Bisque is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create a Shirt.
Quests
Lobster Bisque is not used in any quests.
Trivia
Receiving the letter from Willy with the Lobster Bisque recipe on 14 Winter, Year 2 and watching The Queen of Sauce before checking the mail will result in the letter still in the mailbox, but the recipe box at the bottom of the letter will be blank.
Although its description states that it is "a secret family recipe", it can be learned from The Queen of Sauce.
History
1.3.27: The Lobster Bisque recipe now accepts Large Milk in addition to regular milk.
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Can now be prepared using a Cookout Kit.
1.6: Now obtainable during Desert Festival.
Recipes
Cooking Algae Soup • Artichoke Dip • Autumn's Bounty • Baked Fish • Banana Pudding • Bean Hotpot • Blackberry Cobbler • Blueberry Tart • Bread • Bruschetta • Carp Surprise • Cheese Cauliflower • Chocolate Cake • Chowder • Coleslaw • Complete Breakfast • Cookie • Crab Cakes • Cranberry Candy • Cranberry Sauce • Crispy Bass • Dish O' The Sea • Eggplant Parmesan • Escargot • Farmer's Lunch • Fiddlehead Risotto • Fish Stew • Fish Taco • Fried Calamari • Fried Eel • Fried Egg • Fried Mushroom • Fruit Salad • Glazed Yams • Ginger Ale • Hashbrowns • Ice Cream • Lobster Bisque • Lucky Lunch • Maki Roll • Mango Sticky Rice • Maple Bar • Miner's Treat • Moss Soup • Omelet • Pale Broth • Pancakes • Parsnip Soup • Pepper Poppers • Pink Cake • Pizza • Plum Pudding • Poi • Poppyseed Muffin • Pumpkin Pie • Pumpkin Soup • Radish Salad • Red Plate • Rhubarb Pie • Rice Pudding • Roasted Hazelnuts • Roots Platter • Salad • Salmon Dinner • Sashimi • Seafoam Pudding • Shrimp Cocktail • Spaghetti • Spicy Eel • Squid Ink Ravioli • Stir Fry • Strange Bun • Stuffing • Super Meal • Survival Burger • Tom Kha Soup • Tortilla • Triple Shot Espresso • Tropical Curry • Trout Soup • Vegetable Medley
Crafting Bug Steak • Field Snack • Life Elixir • Oil of Garlic
Categories: RecipesCooking