Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Magic Bait
Allows you to catch fish from any season, time, or weather, from whichever type of water you cast into.
Information
Source Qi's Walnut Room for 5
Energy Inedible
Sell Price 1g
Crafting
Recipe Source Qi's Walnut Room for 20
Ingredients
Radioactive Ore (1)
Bug Meat (3)
Produces 5 Bait per craft
Magic Bait is a type of bait that provides the ability to catch any fish from that source regardless of weather, time, or season. Magic Bait has the same effect on fish bite rate as standard Bait (decreasing biting time by 50%).[1]
Magic Bait cannot be used with the Training Rod or the Bamboo Pole. Only the Fiberglass Rod, the Iridium Rod, and the Advanced Iridium Rod can use bait. It can also technically be inserted into a Crab Pot, but it is no better than standard bait as all crab pot fish can be caught regardless of weather or season.
20 Magic Bait can be purchased from the shop in Qi's Walnut Room for 5. The recipe to craft Magic Bait can also be purchased for 20.
Contents
1 Use
2 Fish Locations
3 Gifting
4 Bundles
5 Quests
6 References
7 History
Use
Requires: Fiberglass Rod, Iridium Rod, or Advanced Iridium Rod.
Each cast uses one piece of bait or one magnet. When all bait is used up, the game pops up a notification saying "You've used your last piece of bait."
To attach bait to a fishing rod, open the inventory, click on the bait ( left-click or right-click, depending on how many bait will be used), and then on the rod. To remove bait, on the rod.
On an Xbox controller, press on the bait to select the whole stack (or to pick up a single one), then to attach to the rod.
On a PS4 controller, press on the bait to select the whole stack (or to pick up a single one), then to attach to the rod.
On a Nintendo Switch Controller, Press on the bait to select the whole stack (Or to pick up a single one), then to attach to the rod.
Bait can be detached by pressing on either Controller. ( on Nintendo Switch)
For the mobile version, bait can be added to the fishing rod by opening the inventory, then dragging the bait and dropping it on top of the rod. Bait cannot be removed on mobile.
Fish Locations
Area for Night Market fish
See the fish location tables for a list of all fish that can be caught in a specific area. As long as the fish can be caught at some point in a specific area, it can be caught anytime by using Magic Bait. Night Market Fish can be caught anytime using Magic Bait in the southwest corner of The Beach. Legendary Fish can be caught anytime in their specific locations by using Magic Bait.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Magic Bait is not used in any bundles.
Quests
Magic Bait is not used in any quests.
References
↑ See FishingRod::calculateTimeUntilFishingBite in the game code.
History
1.5: Introduced.
1.5.2: Fixed crash when fishing from the pond on the Farm using Magic Bait.
1.5.3: Can now catch Night Market fish using Magic Bait in the southwest corner of the Beach.
1.6: Fixed bug where Magic Bait disabled some fish area checks, which allowed players to catch river fish in the forest pond, for example. Can be used in the Advanced Iridium Rod.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Category: Bait