Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Magic Quiver
Shoots a magic arrow at nearby enemies every X seconds, dealing Y-Z damage.
Information
Source: Monsters • Crates and Barrels • Skull Cavern Treasure Rooms
Adventurer's Guild
Purchase Price: N/A
Sell Price: 1,000g
The Magic Quiver is a trinket item obtainable after claiming Combat Mastery. It can be obtained by slaying monsters or breaking crates and barrels in the Mines, Skull Cavern, or Quarry Mine. Drop chances from both methods are affected by daily luck and luck buffs, among other factors. The Burglar's Ring and Monster Compendium do not impact the chance to obtain it from monsters.[1] There is also a ≈0.6% chance to obtain a Magic Quiver from a treasure chest in the Skull Cavern.[2]
While the Magic Quiver is equipped in the trinket slot, the player occasionally shoots a magic arrow that damages the first monster in its path. Any overlapping monsters will also be damaged. When enemies are within 7-8 tiles of the player, a magic arrow is automatically shot straight towards the nearest enemy. Magic arrows cause some knockback and pass through all environmental objects (like mining nodes or weeds).[3]
There are four types of Magic Quivers: regular, "Perfect", "Rapid", and "Heavy". The quiver's type will determine the possible values for the time between shots (X), minimum damage (Y), and maximum damage (Z).
Contents
1 Types
2 Gifting
3 Notes
4 Trivia
5 References
6 History
Types
The Magic Quiver is a random type when dropped, and it can be changed to any of four possible types if re-forged on an Anvil. The generation rates listed below are the chances to obtain each particular type.[4]
Cooldown is determined to the tenth of a second for the regular and Heavy types, and it is determined to the hundredth of a second for the Rapid type. For all types, damage is determined to the whole number. All possible values of both stats are equally likely for their specific types (e.g., a "Rapid Magic Quiver" has a 9.09% chance to have a 0.65 second cooldown and a 20% chance to have a damage range of 9-14).[4] These stats are also re-rolled when the trinket is re-forged on an Anvil, so it is possible to receive the same type of quiver with different stats.
Modifier Cooldown Min Damage Max Damage Generation Rate[4]
(None) 1.1 - 2.1 seconds 13 - 28 Min Damage + 5 86.4%
Perfect 0.9 seconds 30 35 4%
Rapid 0.6 - 0.7 seconds 8 - 12 Min Damage + 5 4.8%
Heavy 1.5 - 2.0 seconds 23 - 38 Min Damage + 5 4.8%
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Wizard
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy
Notes
The damage dealt by the Magic Quiver can benefit from Combat skill damage bonuses. However, it does not receive damage bonuses from Rings like the Ruby Ring or Iridium Band.
The arrows can trigger explosive effects from the Napalm Ring.
If an arrow is fired while the player holds a weapon with the Bug Killer, Crusader, or Vampiric Enchantment, the arrow will receive that Enchantment's bonuses.
Similarly, if an arrow is fired at a Rock Crab while the player holds a pickaxe, it will damage and then remove the crab's shell as the pickaxe would.
The Magic Quiver will not shoot arrows at any Slimes in a Slime Hutch or Truffle Crabs.[3]
Trivia
The Magic Quiver could reference an item in Terraria of the same name, due to the recent crossover between the two titles.
References
↑ See Trinket::TrySpawnTrinket, GameLocation::monsterDrop, and BreakableContainer::releaseContents in the game code.
↑ See MineShaft::getTreasureRoomItem in the game code.
↑ 3.0 3.1 See MagicQuiverTrinketEffect::Update in the game code.
↑ 4.0 4.1 4.2 See MagicQuiverTrinketEffect::GenerateRandomStats in the game code.
History
1.6: Introduced.
Clothing
Footwear Cinderclown Shoes • Combat Boots • Cowboy Boots • Crystal Shoes • Dark Boots • Dragonscale Boots • Emily's Magic Boots • Firewalker Boots • Genie Shoes • Leather Boots • Leprechaun Shoes • Mermaid Boots • Rubber Boots • Sneakers • Space Boots • Thermal Boots • Tundra Boots • Work Boots
Hats ??? • Abigail's Bow • Arcane Hat • Archer's Cap • Beanie • Blobfish Mask • Blue Bonnet • Blue Bow • Blue Cowboy Hat • Blue Ribbon • Bluebird Mask • Bowler Hat • Bridal Veil • Bucket Hat • Butterfly Bow • Cat Ears • Chef Hat • Chicken Mask • Cone Hat • Cool Cap • Copper Pan (hat) • Cowboy Hat • Cowgal Hat • Cowpoke Hat • Daisy • Dark Ballcap • Dark Cowboy Hat • Dark Velvet Bow • Delicate Bow • Deluxe Cowboy Hat • Deluxe Pirate Hat • Dinosaur Hat • Earmuffs • Elegant Turban • Emily's Magic Hat • Eye Patch • Fashion Hat • Fedora • Fishing Hat • Flat Topped Hat • Floppy Beanie • Forager's Hat • Frog Hat • Garbage Hat • Gil's Hat • Gnome's Cap • Goblin Mask • Goggles • Gold Pan (hat) • Golden Helmet • Golden Mask • Good Ol' Cap • Governor's Hat • Green Turban • Hair Bone • Hard Hat • Hunter's Cap • Infinity Crown • Iridium Pan (hat) • Jester Hat • Joja Cap • Junimo Hat • Knight's Helmet • Laurel Wreath Crown • Leprechaun Hat • Living Hat • Logo Cap • Lucky Bow • Magic Cowboy Hat • Magic Turban • Mouse Ears • Mr. Qi's Hat • Mummy Mask • Mushroom Cap • Mystery Hat • Official Cap • Pageboy Cap • Panda Hat • Paper Hat • Party Hat (blue • green • red) • Pink Bow • Pirate Hat • Plum Chapeau • Polka Bow • Propeller Hat • Pumpkin Mask • Qi Mask • Raccoon Hat • Radioactive Goggles • Red Cowboy Hat • Red Fez • Sailor's Cap • Santa Hat • Skeleton Mask • Small Cap • Sombrero • Sou'wester • Space Helmet • Sports Cap • Spotted Headscarf • Squid Hat • Squire's Helmet • Star Helmet • Steel Pan (hat) • Straw Hat • Sunglasses • Swashbuckler Hat • Tiara • Tiger Hat • Top Hat • Totem Mask • Tricorn Hat • Tropiclip • Trucker Hat • Warrior Helmet • Watermelon Band • Wearable Dwarf Helm • White Bow • White Turban • Witch Hat
Rings Amethyst Ring • Aquamarine Ring • Burglar's Ring • Crabshell Ring • Emerald Ring • Glow Ring • Glowstone Ring • Hot Java Ring • Immunity Band • Iridium Band • Jade Ring • Jukebox Ring • Lucky Ring • Magnet Ring • Napalm Ring • Phoenix Ring • Protection Ring • Ring of Yoba • Ruby Ring • Savage Ring • Slime Charmer Ring • Small Glow Ring • Small Magnet Ring • Soul Sapper Ring • Sturdy Ring • Thorns Ring • Topaz Ring • Vampire Ring • Warrior Ring • Wedding Ring
Trinkets Basilisk Paw • Fairy Box • Frog Egg • Golden Spur • Ice Rod • Magic Hair Gel • Magic Quiver • Parrot Egg
Other Dyeing • Tailoring • Emily's Magic Shirt • Luau Skirt • Mystery Shirt • Tight Pants
Category: Trinkets