Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Marnie
Information
Birthday  Fall 18
Lives In Cindersap Forest
Address Marnie's Ranch
Family
Jas (Niece)
Shane (Nephew)
Marriage No
Clinic Visit  Fall 18
 Winter 18 (with Jas)
Loved Gifts
Diamond
Farmer's Lunch
Pink Cake
Pumpkin Pie
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Anytime
5.2 Three Hearts I
5.3 Three Hearts II
5.4 Six Hearts
5.5 Seven Hearts
6 Quotes
7 Quests
8 Portraits
9 Trivia
10 History
“ “Animals are so innocent, so sweet. And If I don't look after them, who will? I just hope my chickens aren't too upset when I take their eggs.”
— Marnie
Marnie is a villager who lives at Marnie's Ranch in the northeast area of Cindersap Forest, near the southwest entrance to Pelican Town.
Marnie runs her own shop at Marnie's Ranch from 9:00 AM to 4:00 PM each day, except Monday and Tuesday, although the building is still open on these days. She sells animals and animal supplies.
Schedule
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Marnie may randomly spend Monday and/or Tuesday there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Marnie will immediately go home to bed. Marnie never visits the Resort on Festival days.
Shown below is Marnie's schedule, prioritized from the top down. For example, if it is raining, that schedule overrides all schedules below it.
Spring 17 (Bus Service Restored)
Desert Festival (As Vendor)
Fall 18
Winter 16
Winter 18
Green Rain (Year 1)
Rain and Thursday
Monday
Tuesday
Regular Schedule
Relationships
Marnie lives with her niece, Jas, and her nephew, Shane. When it is not raining, she exercises with Caroline, Jodi, Emily, and Robin on Tuesdays at Pierre's General Store.
Mayor Lewis and Marnie have a very close relationship. Although Marnie claims to be single during the Flower Dance, Lewis and Marnie's 6-heart event confirms that they are dating. Lewis visits Marnie's Ranch to attend to her "business needs" on occasion, and the two can often be found drinking together at the Stardrop Saloon in the evening. In one of the story quests, Lewis asks you to find his lucky purple shorts, which can be found in Marnie's bedroom.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Marnie up to two gifts per week (plus one on her birthday), which will raise or lower her friendship with you. Gifts on her birthday ( 18 Fall) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved or liked gifts, Marnie responds
“ “A birthday gift? That's very kind of you! I love it.”
“ “You remembered my birthday! Thank you. This is great.”
For neutral gifts, Marnie responds
“ “Oh, a birthday gift! Thank you.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Marnie responds
“ “Oh... It's for my birthday? ... Thanks.”
Love
“ “This is an incredible gift! Thanks!!”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Wow, thanks a million, (Name). I won't forget this!”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Diamond A rare and valuable gem. Mining
Farmer's Lunch This'll keep you going. Cooking
Omelet (1)
Parsnip (1)
Pink Cake There's little heart candies on top. Cooking
Melon (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Sugar (1)
Egg (1)
Pumpkin Pie Silky pumpkin cream in a flaky crust. Cooking
Pumpkin (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Milk (1)
Sugar (1)
Like
“ “Thank you!”
Stardew Valley Almanac
“ “Thanks, (Name). I always like to have a copy of the Almanac around. It's pretty accurate!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
All Milk
Stardew Valley Almanac Read this to gain some farming experience. Bookseller
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - Mines
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Neutral
“ “Thank you! This looks nice.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals (except Stardew Valley Almanac)
All Fruit (except Fruit Tree Fruit & Salmonberry)
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
Dislike
“ “Oh. I guess I'll take it.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Clay)
Salmonberry A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest. Foraging - Spring
Seaweed It can be used in cooking. Fishing
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Hate
“ “This is worthless. I don't understand you.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates (except Seaweed)
Clay Used in crafting and construction. Tilling
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
Like
It Howls In The Rain
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Mysterium
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
The Zuzu City Express
Wumbus
Dislike
N/A
Love
Ice Cream Sandwich
Stardrop Sorbet
Dislike
Black Licorice
Fries
Joja Cola
JojaCorn
Nachos
Salted Peanuts
Truffle Popcorn
Like
Everything else
Heart Events
Anytime
At any friendship level greater than zero friendship points, you may receive a gift in the mail from Marnie. The chance of receiving a gift in the mail increases as your friendship with Marnie increases.
Details 
Three Hearts I
Leave your farmhouse between 6am - 9:30am.
Details 
Three Hearts II
After reaching 3 hearts, Marnie sends you a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Six Hearts
On a sunny day, enter the town between 7pm and 11pm.
Note: Only happens if Lewis is also at 6 hearts.
Details 
Seven Hearts
After reaching 7 hearts, Marnie sends you a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Quotes
Regular 
Events 

Quests
"Cow's Delight": On the 3rd of Fall, Marnie will send you a letter requesting a single bunch of Amaranth. The reward is 500g and 1 Friendship heart.
Marnie may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
Portraits
Trivia
When choosing the "Supplies Shop", there is a 0.01% chance for the text under Marnie's portrait to read "*sigh*... When the door opened I thought it might be Lewis."
Marnie will still tell the player that Shane has lived with her for the past few months, even if they are married to Shane or have lived in the Valley for years.
History
1.4: Fixed bug where all recipes would be sent at 3 friendship hearts.
1.5: Added beach portraits.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Added winter portraits and a new beach portrait.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs