Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Marnie's Ranch
Open Hours: 9:00am to 4:00pm
(Building open 9am to 6pm)
Closed: Monday, Tuesday
(building remains accessible)
Occupants:
Marnie
Jas
Shane
Marnie's Ranch is located in the northeast area of Cindersap Forest, near the southwest entrance to Pelican Town. The Ranch is occupied by Marnie, her niece Jas, and her nephew Shane.
Marnie runs her shop from 9:00am to 4:00pm each day, except Mondays, Tuesdays, Fall 18, Winter 18, and Spring 17 (if bus service is restored). The Ranch house is accessible from 9:00am to 6:00pm every day, even when the shop is closed.
If the player has obtained the power from the Animal Catalogue, the shop is accessible even when Marnie is not behind the counter.
Contents
1 Shop Inventory
2 Livestock
2.1 Notes
3 Pet Adoption
4 Quests
5 Trivia
6 References
7 Gallery
8 History
Shop Inventory
Image Name Description Price
Hay Dried grass used as animal food. 50g
Heater Keeps your animals warmer and happier during the winter. 2,000g
Animal Catalogue You can access Marnie's shop when she's not around.
Becomes available in year 2 5,000g
Milk Pail Gather milk from your animals. 1,000g
Shears Use this to collect wool from sheep 1,000g
Auto-Grabber Automatically harvests from your animals each morning. Must be placed inside a coop or barn.
Becomes available at Farming Level 10 25,000g
Ornamental Hay Bale A decorative piece for your farm. 250g
Golden Egg A very rare and special egg with a solid gold shell.
Becomes available once perfection is achieved 100,000g
Cow Decal Can be placed inside your house.
Becomes available after getting it from the prize machine at the Mayor's Manor 10,000g
Doghouse Can be placed outside. 10,000g
Dark Doghouse Can be placed outside. 10,000g
Cat Tree Can be placed as decoration. 10,000g
Dark Cat Tree Can be placed as decoration. 10,000g
Bird House Can be placed outside. 5,000g
Livestock
Image Name Description Price Building Required
Chicken Well cared-for adult chickens lay eggs every day. Lives in the coop. 800g Coop
Cow Adults can be milked daily. A milk pail is required to harvest the milk. Lives in the barn. 1,500g Barn
Goat Happy adults provide goat milk every other day. A milk pail is required to harvest the milk. Lives in the barn. 4,000g Big Barn
Duck Happy adults lay duck eggs every other day. Lives in the coop. 1,200g Big Coop
Sheep Adults can be shorn for wool. Sheep who form a close bond with their owners can grow wool faster. A pair of shears is required to harvest the wool. Lives in the barn. 8,000g Deluxe Barn
Rabbit These are wooly rabbits! They shed precious wool every few days. Lives in the coop. 8,000g Deluxe Coop
Pig These pigs are trained to find truffles! Lives in the barn. 16,000g Deluxe Barn
Notes
Marnie won't sell animals if the building associated is under construction or during an upgrade.
It is possible to see what color animal you will receive before paying for it. When asked to select which building your animal will stay in, the note at the top of the screen will reveal which color the animal it is. Canceling the purchase at that point will return you to the purchase menu.
Even though Marnie uses male pronouns when referring to some of the pigs and sheep at purchase, the pregnancy feature is still available for them.
Pet Adoption
After a player reaches maximum friendship with their first pet or reaches Year 2 without having a pet, they can purchase Pet Licenses to adopt additional pets.[1] Constructing an additional Pet Bowl for each pet is not necessary to adopt them, but it does prevent friendship loss.
Image Name Description Price
Cat Invite a new pet into your home. If you don't have enough outdoor pet bowls for your pets, they will become upset. 40,000g
Cat Invite a new pet into your home. If you don't have enough outdoor pet bowls for your pets, they will become upset. 40,000g
Cat Invite a new pet into your home. If you don't have enough outdoor pet bowls for your pets, they will become upset. 40,000g
Cat Invite a new pet into your home. If you don't have enough outdoor pet bowls for your pets, they will become upset. 40,000g
Cat Invite a new pet into your home. If you don't have enough outdoor pet bowls for your pets, they will become upset. 40,000g
Dog Invite a new pet into your home. If you don't have enough outdoor pet bowls for your pets, they will become upset. 40,000g
Dog Invite a new pet into your home. If you don't have enough outdoor pet bowls for your pets, they will become upset. 40,000g
Dog Invite a new pet into your home. If you don't have enough outdoor pet bowls for your pets, they will become upset. 40,000g
Dog Invite a new pet into your home. If you don't have enough outdoor pet bowls for your pets, they will become upset. 40,000g
Dog Invite a new pet into your home. If you don't have enough outdoor pet bowls for your pets, they will become upset. 40,000g
Turtle Invite a new pet into your home. If you don't have enough outdoor pet bowls for your pets, they will become upset. 60,000g
Turtle Invite a new pet into your home. If you don't have enough outdoor pet bowls for your pets, they will become upset. 500,000g
Quests
Mayor's "Shorts" - Mayor Lewis' Purple Shorts can be found in Marnie's room.
Trivia
When choosing the "Supplies Shop", there is a 0.01% chance for the text under Marnie's portrait to read "*sigh*... When the door opened I thought it might be Lewis."
If a player inspects the dresser in Marnie's room, a text box appears, saying "there's a pair of brown suspenders".
If the player has a Silo, they can use a scythe to harvest hay from the grass outside Marnie's Ranch, as long as it has grown close enough to the fence to reach.
References
↑ See GameLocation::animalShop in the game code.
Gallery
Interior
History
1.3.27: Added Auto-Grabber and Ornamental Hay Bale to shop stock.
1.5: Added Golden Egg to shop stock.
1.6: Added Animal Catalogue, Doghouses, Cat Trees, and Bird House to stock. Additional pets can now be adopted from Marnie.
1.6.3: Players can start adopting pets in Marnie's shop if they don't have one in year two.
1.6.9: The grass in front of the Ranch now grows back each Spring. Added Cow Decal to shop stock.
Buildings
Merchants Abandoned House • Adventurer's Guild • Blacksmith • Bookseller • Carpenter's Shop • Casino • Desert Trader • Fish Shop • Giant Stump • Harvey's Clinic • Ice Cream Stand • Island Trader • JojaMart • Marnie's Ranch • Oasis • Pierre's General Store • Qi's Walnut Room • The Stardrop Saloon • Traveling Cart • Volcano Dwarf • Wizard's Tower
Houses 1 River Road • 2 River Road • 1 Willow Lane • 2 Willow Lane • 24 Mountain Road • Elliott's Cabin • Farmhouse • Island Farmhouse • Leah's Cottage • Mayor's Manor • Tent • Trailer • Treehouse
Farm Buildings Farming Barn • Cabin • Coop • Fish Pond • Greenhouse • Mill • Pet Bowl • Shed • Silo • Slime Hutch • Stable • Well
Special Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Gold Clock • Island Obelisk • Junimo Hut • Water Obelisk
Other Buildings Community Center • Dog Pen • Island Field Office • Joja Warehouse • Movie Theater • Museum • Spa • Witch's Hut
Categories: Forest LocationsStores