Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Mayor's Manor
Open Hours: 8:30am - 10pm
Occupants:
Lewis
The Mayor's Manor is the home of Lewis. It is located east of the Graveyard and south of Pam and Penny's Trailer, next to the bridge leading to the Museum and Blacksmith. Lewis can often be found here either standing at his stove or tending to his garden at the front of the house.
Contents
1 Interior
1.1 Prize Machine
1.2 Multiplayer Funds
1.3 Divorce
1.4 Lost and Found
1.5 Secret
2 History
Interior
The interior of Lewis' home is simple, with an open concept kitchen that connects to his bedroom. Players must gain two hearts friendship before being able to enter Lewis' room.
On the left hand side of the house are four objects to interact with, offering several services to the Player. From left to right the following can be done:
Prize Machine
For a list of prizes, see Prize Ticket.
A prize machine, located next to the Town Ledger, rewards various prizes in exchange for Prize Tickets. Prize Tickets are earned by completing Quests, Special Orders, the Stardew Valley Fair shop, and through repeated Egg Festival and Festival of Ice wins. When using the prize machine, the player can see how many Prize Tickets they currently have as well as the next three prizes to be dispensed. Claiming a prize gives the player the first prize in line and advances the remaining prizes forward by one space.
Multiplayer Funds
Next to the prize machine is a "Town Ledger" that can be used to change between shared and separate funds in a Multiplayer game. This change happens overnight.
Divorce
Another book is next to the "Town Ledger", it gives players have the option to divorce their spouses for 50,000g. This book can also be used to evict a housemate (for free).
Lost and Found
The Lost & Found Box can be used to retrieve items donated to failed special orders, lost quest items and tools, items from offline players, hats from children that have been turned into doves, and items left behind in the Stardew Valley Fair grange display.
Secret
Details  
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Added divorce book to interior.
1.4: Replaced lamp with Town Ledger on table with divorce book.
1.5: Added the Lost & Found Box.
1.6: Added the Prize Machine and a new secret room in the house.
1.6.4: The Prize Machine now consumes the Prize Ticket when the reward is obtained, rather than when the button is pressed.
Buildings
Merchants Abandoned House • Adventurer's Guild • Blacksmith • Bookseller • Carpenter's Shop • Casino • Desert Trader • Fish Shop • Giant Stump • Harvey's Clinic • Ice Cream Stand • Island Trader • JojaMart • Marnie's Ranch • Oasis • Pierre's General Store • Qi's Walnut Room • The Stardrop Saloon • Traveling Cart • Volcano Dwarf • Wizard's Tower
Houses 1 River Road • 2 River Road • 1 Willow Lane • 2 Willow Lane • 24 Mountain Road • Elliott's Cabin • Farmhouse • Island Farmhouse • Leah's Cottage • Mayor's Manor • Tent • Trailer • Treehouse
Farm Buildings Farming Barn • Cabin • Coop • Fish Pond • Greenhouse • Mill • Pet Bowl • Shed • Silo • Slime Hutch • Stable • Well
Special Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Gold Clock • Island Obelisk • Junimo Hut • Water Obelisk
Other Buildings Community Center • Dog Pen • Island Field Office • Joja Warehouse • Movie Theater • Museum • Spa • Witch's Hut
Category: Town Locations