Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Mega Bomb
Generates a powerful explosion. Use with extreme caution.
Information
Source
Crafting
Dwarf
Volcano Dungeon shop
Desert Festival
Desert Trader
Squid Kid (5%)
Iridium Bat (5%)
Haunted Skull (1.3%)
Magma Duggy (40%)
Crane Game in Movie Theater
Sell Price 50g
Crafting
Recipe Source Mining Level 8
Ingredients
Gold Ore (4)
Solar Essence (1)
Void Essence (1)
The Mega Bomb is a one-time use explosive item. It damages certain items within its radius. Other items are impervious to its effects.
Mega Bombs can be crafted or purchased from the Dwarf (in The Mines and in the Volcano Dungeon) for 1,600g. They are also offered by the Desert Trader, who will trade five Iridium Ore for one Mega Bomb. They can be purchased from the Calico Egg Merchant at the Desert Festival for 15 Calico Eggs. Squid Kids, Iridium Bats, Haunted Skulls, and Magma Duggies may also drop a Mega Bomb when slain. Mega Bombs can be won from the Crane Game inside the Movie Theater, during any season. Five Mega Bombs may occasionally be found in Treasure Rooms in the Skull Cavern. 3-5 Mega Bombs may occasionally be found in Supply Crates on the Beach Farm provided the player has upgraded the Farmhouse at least two times. A Bomb may occasionally be purchased from the Traveling Cart for 150–1,000g. Five Mega Bombs may be received from opening a Mystery Box or Golden Mystery Box. Six or eight Mega Bombs can be given as a prize from the prize machine in the Mayor's Manor. Kent may randomly send one in the mail as a gift.
Tip: Due to the wide blast area it is often a challenge to use the Mega Bomb without taking damage. Ensure ample healing supplies are available when using this. If a player has read the Dwarvish Safety Manual, they will take 25% less damage from a Mega Bomb.
Contents
1 Effects
2 Radius
3 Gifting
4 Bundles
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 Trivia
8 History
Effects
Note that the following is not an exhaustive list:
Rocks and ore/gem nodes will drop their respective ores, gems, etc.
Mushrooms, Artifact Spots, and foraged minerals will be destroyed.
Any untilled dirt tiles within a significantly smaller radius will become tilled. In The Mines and Skull Cavern, any items (e.g., clay, artifacts) will be dropped at the same rate as a player using a hoe; elsewhere, nothing will drop (unless the spot in question is the subject of a Secret Note).
Crafted artisan and refining equipment will be destroyed.
Heaters will be destroyed.
Auto-Grabbers will not be destroyed, whether empty or containing items.
Trees will be destroyed when their health reaches zero (four Mega Bombs will knock down a fully grown tree, and two more will destroy the stump). Trees will drop wood, sap, and any seeds they contained.
Radius
The Mega Bomb has a radius of 6-8 tiles.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Mega Bomb is not used in any bundles.
Tailoring
A Mega Bomb can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Bomber Jacket. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a red dye at the dye pots located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane. It can also be used as a red dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed.
Quests
Two Mega Bombs are requested by Lava Eel in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 5 to 7.
Trivia
The Bouncer guarding the Casino will drop a Mega Bomb to ward off the player if they use glitches to try to enter the Casino without permission.
History
1.4: Can now be obtained from Crane Game in the Movie Theater. Ore nodes in the Quarry now drop ore instead of stone. Gem Nodes in the Quarry can be destroyed by mega bombs. Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in a Fish Pond quest.
1.5: Now sold at the shop in the Volcano Dungeon. Can now be found in Supply Crates on the Beach Farm.
1.6: Now sold by Calico Egg Merchant. Mega Bomb price from the Dwarf increased from 1,000g to 1,600g. Added as possible prize from Mystery Boxes, Golden Mystery Boxes, and Prize Machine. Reading the Dwarvish Safety Manual will reduce damage to players.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Category: Craftable items