Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Mill
Allows you to mill wheat, beets and rice.
Information
Build cost 2,500g
Build materials
Stone (50)
Wood (150)
Cloth (4)
Size 4x2
The Mill is a farm building purchasable from Robin at the Carpenter's Shop. It takes two days for Robin to complete its construction.
Contents
1 Behavior
1.1 Tips
2 Products
3 History
Behavior
All types of ingredients in any quantity can be processed at the same time. All products are ready the next morning.
The milled goods will be ready the morning after the produce is placed in the mill, and they can be found in the little box on the right side of the mill. It acts like a chest (with 36 storage slots), accumulating milled goods until they are retrieved. You can leave current contents there while you process more produce, and the results are added in the next day. The box also signals that it has milled goods in the first slot, like a piece of manufacturing equipment.
You can put additional items into this box and use it as you do any chest, as long as there are at least 2 different types of items in it. When doing so, however, care must be taken that the box has room for the mill to place its milled goods. These goods are accumulated in slots that already contain milled goods, or if those don't exist, then in the first available open slot(s). If there are not enough available slots overnight, milled goods are lost. If you mill two stacks and only one slot is available, the first stack you place in the mill is saved in that slot, and the other is lost.
Tips
The box does not signal the presence of any milled goods that are not in the first slot.
Products
Image Name Description Ingredient Sell Price
Wheat Flour A common cooking ingredient made from crushed wheat seeds.
Wheat (1)
50g
Sugar (3) Adds sweetness to pastries and candies. Too much can be unhealthy.
Beet (1)
50g
Rice A basic grain often served under vegetables.
Unmilled Rice (1)
100g
History
1.1: Introduced.
1.4: Added ability to make Rice from Unmilled Rice. Interacting with a Mill that only has one type of item in it now automatically collects the item instead of opening a chest menu.
Buildings
Merchants Abandoned House • Adventurer's Guild • Blacksmith • Bookseller • Carpenter's Shop • Casino • Desert Trader • Fish Shop • Giant Stump • Harvey's Clinic • Ice Cream Stand • Island Trader • JojaMart • Marnie's Ranch • Oasis • Pierre's General Store • Qi's Walnut Room • The Stardrop Saloon • Traveling Cart • Volcano Dwarf • Wizard's Tower
Houses 1 River Road • 2 River Road • 1 Willow Lane • 2 Willow Lane • 24 Mountain Road • Elliott's Cabin • Farmhouse • Island Farmhouse • Leah's Cottage • Mayor's Manor • Tent • Trailer • Treehouse
Farm Buildings Farming Barn • Cabin • Coop • Fish Pond • Greenhouse • Mill • Pet Bowl • Shed • Silo • Slime Hutch • Stable • Well
Special Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Gold Clock • Island Obelisk • Junimo Hut • Water Obelisk
Other Buildings Community Center • Dog Pen • Island Field Office • Joja Warehouse • Movie Theater • Museum • Spa • Witch's Hut
Category: Farm buildings