Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Mixed Seeds
There's a little bit of everything here. Plant them and see what grows!
Information
Crop: Varies
Growth Time: Varies
Season:
 Spring  Summer  Fall
Sell Price: 0g
Purchase Prices
General Store: Not Sold
JojaMart: Not Sold
Traveling Cart: Not Sold
Mixed Seeds are a random type of seed capable of producing a specific set of crops (listed below). The crop that will grow from a Mixed Seed is decided when it is planted. Mixed Seeds collected in any season always grow to become crops of the season in which they are planted, including those planted in the Greenhouse and indoors via the Garden Pot. Mixed Seeds cannot be planted in winter except in the Greenhouse and indoors in garden pots, where they become one of the random crops from any season. Mixed Seeds planted on Ginger Island are always the same no matter the season.
Contents
1 Sources
2 List of Seeds
3 Recipes
4 Gifting
5 Quests
6 Trading
7 Gallery
8 References
9 History
Sources
Harvesting Weeds with a Scythe, Axe, Pickaxe, Hoe, Sword, or bomb may drop mixed seeds if no Fiber drops (9% chance if Raccoon Journal has been read, otherwise 5%).[1]
Tilling dirt or sand.
Fishing Treasure Chests.
Sold by Krobus on Thursdays for 30g each.
1/5 chance of being sold at the shop at the Stardew Valley Fair for 1,000 for 24 seeds.
Wilderness Golems and Iridium Golems on the Wilderness Farm map have a 50% chance of dropping Mixed Seeds, and a 20% chance (after reaching Combat Level 5) for a second one when slain.
Crayfish, Periwinkle, or Snail Fish Ponds may produce 2-3 Mixed Seeds when the population of the pond reaches 5.
Whenever the Seed Maker is used with any crop, there is a 1.99% chance you will get 1-4 Mixed Seeds instead of the crop's seeds.
3-5 Mixed Seeds may occasionally be found in Supply Crates on the Beach Farm.
10 Mixed Seeds may be received from opening a Mystery Box.
Sold by the Calico Egg Merchant, Evelyn, and Jodi at the Desert Festival.
Sold by the Raccoon's wife after completing the fourth request.
15 from the prize machine in the Mayor's Manor (50% chance to be the 3rd prize).
List of Seeds
Mixed Seeds will turn into the following seeds upon planting. Note that Mixed Seeds can turn into Artichoke Seeds during year 1, despite the fact that Artichoke Seeds are normally unavailable until year 2. During Spring, on the Farm, Parsnip Seeds are twice as likely to be chosen as Cauliflower or Potato Seeds.[2]
Season Seeds
Spring Cauliflower Seeds • Parsnip Seeds • Potato Seeds
Summer Corn Seeds • Pepper Seeds • Radish Seeds • Wheat Seeds
Fall Artichoke Seeds • Corn Seeds • Eggplant Seeds • Pumpkin Seeds
Winter Any of the above (Greenhouse and indoor Garden Pot only).
Ginger Island Blueberry Seeds • Melon Seeds • Pineapple Seeds • Rhubarb Seeds
Recipes
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Fiber Seeds Plant these in any season. Does not require watering. Harvest with the scythe. Takes 7 days to grow.
Mixed Seeds (1)
Sap (5)
Clay (1)
Special Order Board quest Community Cleanup.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Quests
Three or five Mixed Seeds may be requested by several fish in Fish Pond quests.
Trading
Ten Mixed Seeds can be traded to the Raccoon's wife for 1 Raccoon Hat, after the third request from the Raccoon family is completed.
Gallery
Shown below are all possible seeds that a mixed seed can turn into, outside of Ginger Island.
Unwatered
Watered
References
↑ See Object::cutWeed in the game code.
↑ See Crop::ResolveSeedId in the game code.
History
1.4: Can be requested in Fish Pond quests. Can be produced by Fish Ponds.
1.5: Can be used in the crafting recipe for Fiber Seeds. Can now be found in Supply Crates on the Beach Farm.
1.6: Can now be exchanged to obtain Raccoon Hat. Can now be obtained from Mystery Boxes and Iridium Golems. Chance to obtain from weeds is increased after reading Raccoon Journal. Can now be purchased from the Calico Egg Merchant, Evelyn, and Jodi at the Desert Festival.
Seeds, Starters, and Saplings
Spring Apricot Sapling • Bean Starter • Carrot Seeds • Cauliflower Seeds • Cherry Sapling • Coffee Beans • Garlic Seeds • Jazz Seeds • Kale Seeds • Parsnip Seeds • Potato Seeds • Rice Shoot • Rhubarb Seeds • Spring Seeds • Strawberry Seeds • Tulip Bulb
Summer Blueberry Seeds • Coffee Beans • Corn Seeds • Hops Starter • Melon Seeds • Orange Sapling • Peach Sapling • Pepper Seeds • Poppy Seeds • Radish Seeds • Red Cabbage Seeds • Spangle Seeds • Summer Seeds • Summer Squash Seeds • Sunflower Seeds • Starfruit Seeds • Tomato Seeds • Wheat Seeds
Fall Amaranth Seeds • Apple Sapling • Artichoke Seeds • Beet Seeds • Bok Choy Seeds • Broccoli Seeds • Corn Seeds • Cranberry Seeds • Eggplant Seeds • Fairy Seeds • Fall Seeds • Grape Starter • Pomegranate Sapling • Pumpkin Seeds • Rare Seed • Sunflower Seeds • Wheat Seeds • Yam Seeds
Winter Powdermelon Seeds • Winter Seeds
Other Acorn • Ancient Seeds • Banana Sapling • Blue Grass Starter • Cactus Seeds • Fiber Seeds • Grass Starter • Mahogany Seed • Mango Sapling • Maple Seed • Mixed Flower Seeds • Mixed Seeds • Mossy Seed • Mushroom Tree Seed • Mystic Tree Seed • Pineapple Seeds • Qi Bean • Tea Sapling • Pine Cone • Taro Tuber
Category: Seeds