Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Monsters are enemies found in the Mines, the Skull Cavern, the Quarry Mine, the Mutant Bug Lair, the Volcano Dungeon, and, optionally, on the Farm. Monsters can attack the Player and damage their health. When killed, monsters have a chance of dropping Monster Loot and other items. Killing monsters increases the player's combat skill.
Contents
1 Monsters on the Farm
2 Dangerous Monsters
3 Monsters List
4 History
Monsters on the Farm
Monsters can appear at night on the Farm based on the "Spawn monsters on the farm" advanced option (enabled by default for the Wilderness Farm). It can also be toggled in-game by offering a Strange Bun to the Dark Shrine of Night Terrors in the Witch's Hut.
Monsters on the farm scale with the player's combat level, with higher levels spawning more difficult monsters and Wilderness Golems. Monsters killed on the farm grant combat XP (though only 1/3 of the standard amount of XP), and count towards monster eradication goals. However, they don't count towards quest and special order goals.
Slimes killed in a Slime Hutch don't provide XP or count towards eradication goals.
Regardless of whether monster spawning is enabled, each Truffle dug up by a Pig has a 0.2% chance of turning into a Truffle Crab.
Dangerous Monsters
Monsters in the Mines and the Skull Cavern are more dangerous during the Danger in the Deep and Skull Cavern Invasion quests, or while the Shrine of Challenge is toggled on.
Dangerous monsters have unique sprites and stats. With few exceptions, their health, damage, and sometimes defense are higher, and their speed identical, when compared to their non-dangerous counterparts. Killing dangerous monsters earns the player the same amount of combat experience points as most of their non-dangerous counterparts.
The Putrid Ghost, Skeleton Mage, and Shadow Sniper feature unique debuffs.
Monsters List
The Mines
All Floors Floors 1-29 Floors 31-39 Floors 41-79 Floors 81-119
Green Slime
Bug
Cave Fly
Duggy
Grub
Rock Crab
Bat
Bug
Stone Golem
Dust Sprite
Frost Bat
Blue Slime
Ghost
Skeleton
Lava Bat
Lava Crab
Metal Head
Red Slime
Shadow Brute
Shadow Shaman
Squid Kid
Skull Cavern Quarry Mine Mutant Bug Lair Volcano Dungeon
Armored Bug
Big Slime
Carbon Ghost
Iridium Bat
Iridium Crab
Lava Bat
Mummy
Pepper Rex
Purple Slime
Serpent
Copper Slime
Haunted Skull
Iron Slime
Mutant Fly
Mutant Grub
Dwarvish Sentry
False Magma Cap
Hot Head
Lava Lurk
Magma Sprite
Magma Sparker
Magma Duggy
Tiger Slime
The Farm
All Combat Levels Combat Level 0-3 Combat Level 4-7 Combat Level 8-9 Combat Level 10
Bat
Truffle Crab
Wilderness Golem
Green Slime
Blue Slime
Frost Bat (Combat Level 5+)
Red Slime
Frost Bat
Iridium Golem (Combat Level 9+)
Lava Bat
Shadow Brute
Frost Bat
Lava Bat
Iridium Bat
Iridium Golem
Purple Slime
Shadow Brute
Serpent
Dangerous Mines
All Floors Floors 1-29 Floors 31-39
Dangerous Slimes (all colors)
Haunted Skull (dangerous) (on dungeon floors)
Blue Squid
Bug (dangerous)
Duggy (dangerous)
Rock Crab (dangerous)
Bat (dangerous)
Bug (dangerous)
Carbon Ghost
Stone Golem (dangerous)
Floors 41-69 Floors 71-79 Floors 81-119
Grub (dangerous)
Cave Fly (dangerous)
Dust Sprite (dangerous)
Frost Bat (dangerous)
Putrid Ghost
Spider
Stick Bug
Skeleton (dangerous)
Skeleton Mage
Haunted Skull (dangerous)
Lava Bat
Lava Crab (dangerous)
Metal Head (dangerous)
Shadow Brute (dangerous)
Shadow Shaman (dangerous)
Shadow Sniper
Squid Kid (dangerous)
Dangerous Skull Cavern
Armored Bug (dangerous)
Mummy (dangerous)
Purple Slime (dangerous)
Royal Serpent
Squid Kid (dangerous)
History
1.1: Added Mutant Grub, Mutant Fly, Wilderness Golem.
1.3.27: Added Carbon Ghost, Iridium Bat, and Iridium Crab.
1.4: Added Copper Slime, Haunted Skull, Iron Slime, and Pepper Rex.
1.5: Added Blue Squid, Dwarvish Sentry, False Magma Cap, Hot Head, Lava Lurk, Magma Duggy, Magma Sprite, Magma Sparker, Putrid Ghost, Royal Serpent, Shadow Sniper, Skeleton Mage, Spider, Stick Bug, Tiger Slime, and Dangerous versions of monsters.
1.6: Added Iridium Golem and Truffle Crab. Monsters on the farm now give 1/3 of the standard amount of XP.
Monsters
Mines Bats • Bug • Cave Fly • Duggy • Dust Sprite • Ghost • Grub • Lava Crab • Metal Head • Rock Crab • Shadow Brute • Shadow Shaman • Skeleton • Slimes • Squid Kid • Stone Golem
Dangerous Mines Bat (dangerous) • Blue Squid • Bug (dangerous) • Carbon Ghost • Cave Fly (dangerous) • Duggy (dangerous) • Dust Sprite (dangerous) • Frost Bat (dangerous) • Grub (dangerous) • Haunted Skull (dangerous) • Lava Crab (dangerous) • Metal Head (dangerous) • Putrid Ghost • Rock Crab (dangerous) • Shadow Brute (dangerous) • Shadow Shaman (dangerous) • Shadow Sniper • Skeleton (dangerous) • Skeleton Mage • Slimes (dangerous) • Spider • Squid Kid (dangerous) • Stick Bug • Stone Golem (dangerous)
Quarry Mine Copper Slime • Haunted Skull • Iron Slime
Skull Cavern Armored Bug • Big Slime • Carbon Ghost • Iridium Bat • Iridium Crab • Lava Bat • Mummy • Pepper Rex • Purple Slime • Serpent
Dangerous Skull Cavern Armored Bug (dangerous) • Mummy (dangerous) • Royal Serpent • Slime (dangerous)
Bug Lair Mutant Fly • Mutant Grub
The Farm Iridium Golem • Truffle Crab • Wilderness Golem
Volcano Dungeon Dwarvish Sentry • False Magma Cap • Hot Head • Lava Lurk • Magma Duggy • Magma Sparker • Magma Sprite • Tiger Slime
Category: Monsters