Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Monster Compendium
Monsters have a small chance to drop double loot.
Information
Source Monsters • Bookseller
Sell Price 2,000g
The Monster Compendium is a power book that can be dropped by monsters. The chance for a monster to drop the book starts at 0.01% and increases by 0.015% for each monster killed until it is dropped. Then the chance stays at 0.05% permanently. It cannot drop until the player has killed more than 10 monsters.[1]
It can also be purchased from the Bookseller for 20,000g starting in Year 3 (≈9% chance to appear).[2]
The first reading grants the player a power that gives all monsters a 3% chance to drop double loot. This effect stacks with that of the Burglar's Ring.[1] Once read, it can be found in the Player's Menu on the Special Items & Powers tab. Each subsequent reading gives the player 100 Combat XP.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Tailoring
4 Quests
5 Trading
6 Trivia
7 References
8 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Abigail •  Krobus •  Penny
Like  Elliott •  Sebastian
Neutral  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Dislike  Alex
Bundles
Monster Compendium is not used in any bundles.
Tailoring
Monster Compendium is not used in any tailoring. It can be used as a black dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed.
Quests
Monster Compendium is not used in any quests.
Trading
Two Monster Compendiums can be traded to the Bookseller for either 1 Slime Egg-Press or 1 Slime Incubator, provided the player has already obtained the power from this book.
Trivia
It is possible to obtain two Prismatic Jelly using this book's power, although this has no effect on the Wizard's Special Order.
References
↑
1.0 1.1 See GameLocation::monsterDrop in the game code.
↑ See Data\Shops.xnb in the game files.
History
1.6: Introduced.
1.6.4: Fixed Monster Compendium not actually doubling all loot.
Category: Books