Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Mr. Qi
Information
Birthday Unknown
Lives In The Calico Desert
Address Casino (Desert)
Qi's Walnut Room (Island)
Marriage No
Loved Gifts N/A
Contents
1 Gifts
2 Schedule
3 Quotes
4 Quest
5 Special Orders
6 Note
7 Portraits
8 Secrets
9 History
“ “I was born an ordinary boy, but I made a decision early in life that I would become extraordinary.”
— Mr. Qi
Mr. Qi is a mysterious stranger who is first encountered when the player puts a Battery Pack into the lock-box in the tunnel. He is connected to the empty box at the train station.
He operates the Casino which is located behind Sandy's store, the Oasis, in the Calico Desert. To gain access to the Casino players must complete the quest line "The Mysterious Qi". After the quest is complete the Bouncer will move aside to allow the player to enter. He can be found inside the Casino whenever it is open.
He also can be found on Ginger Island in his walnut room, once the player has obtained 100 Golden Walnuts. Here, he will give the player special Qi challenges. Upon completing these challenges, the player will be rewarded with Qi Gems.
Gifts
Players cannot give gifts to raise friendship points with Mr. Qi.
Schedule
Mr. Qi can always be found both at the Casino during the Oasis' open hours and in Qi's Walnut Room on Ginger Island.
Quotes
Expand
Casino  

Expand
Qi's Walnut Room  

Quest
An untitled Lost Book in the Library written by Gunther provides a hint at how to start the The Mysterious Qi quest. Secret Note #22 also provides a hint. Note that the quest can be started at any time; it is not necessary to find/read the Lost Book or Secret Note #22 to start the quest.
Quest Name Quest Text Provided By Requirements Rewards
Qi's Challenge You've been challenged to reach level 25 in the skull cavern. You've been promised a substantial reward if you're successful. Received by mail the day after entering the Skull Cavern. Reach level 25 in the Skull Cavern. 10,000g, delivered by mail the next day
The Mysterious Qi Within a secret lock-box, you found a note with peculiar instructions. It's signed by a 'Mr. Qi'. Put a Battery Pack in the lock-box in the tunnel next to the bus stop Leave a Rainbow Shell in the box at the train platform.
You found another note written by 'Mr. Qi'. The request is even more unusual this time. Complete "The Mysterious Qi" first quest Place 10 beets inside Mayor Lewis' fridge.
You've found yet another strange note within the Mayor's fridge. This time, the instructions are more cryptic. Complete "The Mysterious Qi" second quest "Give the sand dragon his final meal." (Put a Solar Essence in the sand dragon's mouth in The Desert)
You found another note in the sand dragon's eye. It seems Mr. Qi's strange scavenger hunt has come to an end. Complete "The Mysterious Qi" third quest Inspect the lumber pile beside your house. Club Card, which gives you access to the Casino in Oasis.
Special Orders
See: List of Mr. Qi's Special Orders
Note
Mr. Qi is featured in a few cutscenes, most noticeably when Mystery Boxes become available and during the epilogue upon reaching The Summit.
Portraits
Secrets
If you glitch to The Summit it will trigger a cutscene where Mr. Qi will scold you for your cheating and push you off the summit, resulting in you waking up in Harvey's Clinic.
The player's Grandpa is revealed to be an acquaintance of Mr. Qi in The Summit cutscene.
After reading Secret Note #10, the player will find Mr. Qi at floor 100 of the Skull Cavern. A cutscene ensues in which:
Expand
Details 
History
1.3.27: Added encounter in Skull Cavern. Updated portrait.
1.5: Added Walnut Room and quests on Ginger Island. Relationship with the player's Grandpa is now revealed in the summit cutscene.
1.6: Added additional pre-Perfection Summit cutscene.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs