Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Mudstone
A fine-grained rock made from ancient clay or mud.
Information
Source
Geode
Omni Geode
Sell Price 25g
Gemologist Profession (+30% Sell Price) 32g
Mudstone is a mineral that can be found in the Geode and the Omni Geode.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Recipes
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Wizard
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy
Bundles
Mudstone is not used in any bundles.
Recipes
Mudstone is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Mudstone is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with Cloth in the feed to create a Brown Jacket. It is a brown dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed. It can be placed in the orange dye pot at Emily's and Haley's house for use in dyeing.
Quests
1 Mudstone may be requested by Bullhead or Largemouth Bass in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 7 to 10.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests.
1.6: Is no longer a possible Midnight Carp Fish Pond request.
Minerals
Foraged Minerals Earth Crystal • Fire Quartz • Frozen Tear • Quartz
Gems Amethyst • Aquamarine • Diamond • Emerald • Jade • Prismatic Shard • Ruby • Topaz
Geode Minerals Aerinite • Alamite • Baryte • Basalt • Bixite • Calcite • Celestine • Dolomite • Esperite • Fairy Stone • Fire Opal • Fluorapatite • Geminite • Ghost Crystal • Granite • Helvite • Hematite • Jagoite • Jamborite • Jasper • Kyanite • Lemon Stone • Limestone • Lunarite • Malachite • Marble • Mudstone • Nekoite • Neptunite • Obsidian • Ocean Stone • Opal • Orpiment • Petrified Slime • Pyrite • Sandstone • Slate • Soapstone • Star Shards • Thunder Egg • Tigerseye
Geodes Geode • Frozen Geode • Magma Geode • Omni Geode
Category: Geode Minerals