Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Mystic Syrup
A very rare syrup that is said to have magic properties.
Information
Source Crafting
Season  All
Energy / Health
500
225
Sell Prices
Base Tapper (+25%)
1,000g
1,250g
Crafting
Equipment
Tapper
Heavy Tapper
Processing Time
7 or 3 days
Ingredients Mystic Tree
Mystic Syrup is a Tree sap that can be obtained by placing a Tapper on a Mystic Tree grown by the player. The process takes 7 days, or 3 days with the Heavy Tapper.
Although Mystic Syrup is labeled "Artisan Good" in-game, it does not benefit from the Artisan Profession, but instead from the Tapper Profession (+25% value).
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Recipes
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 Trading
7 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Neutral  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Dislike  Haley
Bundles
Mystic Syrup is not used in any bundles.
Recipes
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source(s) Sell Price
Treasure Totem Use on diggable terrain to summon a ring of treasure spots.
Hardwood (5)
Mystic Syrup (1)
Moss (10)
Foraging Mastery 20g
Blue Grass Starter Place this on your farm to plant a clump of blue grass.
Fiber (25)
Moss (10)
Mystic Syrup (1)
Mr. Qi ( 40) 50g
Tailoring
Mystic Syrup is not used in any tailoring. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a blue dye at the dye pots located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane. It can also be used as a cyan dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed.
Quests
Mystic Syrup is not used in any quests.
Trading
Once unlocked, the Raccoon's wife at the Giant Stump will trade for Mystic Syrup.
Image Name Description Price Requirements
Fairy Dust Sprinkle on kegs, furnaces, and other refining equipment to instantly receive their product.
Mystic Syrup (1)
6th Request Completed
History
1.6: Introduced.
Artisan Goods
Bee House Honey
Cask Beer • Cheese • Goat Cheese • Mead • Pale Ale • Wine
Cheese Press Cheese • Goat Cheese
Keg Beer • Coffee • Green Tea • Juice • Mead • Pale Ale • Wine
Loom Cloth
Mayonnaise Machine Dinosaur Mayonnaise • Duck Mayonnaise • Mayonnaise • Void Mayonnaise
Oil Maker Oil • Truffle Oil
Preserves Jar Aged Roe • Caviar • Jellies and Pickles
Fish Smoker Smoked Fish
Dehydrator Dried Mushrooms • Dried Fruit • Raisins
Misc Maple Syrup • Oak Resin • Pine Tar • Mystic Syrup
Category: Artisan Goods