Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Nautilus Shell
An ancient shell.
Information
Source Foraging • Fish Pond • Turtle
Location The Beach • Beach Farm • Dangerous Mines
Season
 All (Beach Farm • Dangerous Mines)
 Winter (Beach)
Energy Inedible
Sell Price
120g
150g
180g
240g
Not to be confused with Nautilus Fossil.
The Nautilus Shell is found via foraging at The Beach in Winter. The player may randomly receive one in the mail from Demetrius. It can also be received as a gift at the Feast of the Winter Star. It may also spawn on the Beach Farm during any season. It may also be found foraging on levels 1-29 of the Mines while the Shrine of Challenge is enabled, or the Danger in The Deep quest is active. It can also be gifted by a pet turtle with max friendship, or randomly found at the Traveling Cart for 360–1,000g. One Nautilus Shell can be purchased from Demetrius' shop at the Desert Festival for 50 Calico Eggs.
Several Crab Pot fish may produce a Nautilus Shell in a Fish Pond when the population of the pond reaches 9.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Recipes
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Evelyn •  Leo
Neutral  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Hate  Harvey
Bundles
A Nautilus Shell is used in the Field Research Bundle on the Bulletin Board.
Recipes
Nautilus Shell is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
The Nautilus Shell can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the dyeable Strapped Top. It can be used in dyeing, serving as an orange dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
One Nautilus Shell is requested by Sturgeon in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 7 to 10.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in a Fish Pond quest. Can be produced by Fish Ponds.
1.5: Can now spawn on the Beach Farm during any season.
1.6: Can now be gifted by a pet turtle with max friendship. Now obtainable during Desert Festival. Now liked by Evelyn.
1.6.4: Can now be added to Fish Tanks as decoration.
Foraging
Basic Sap
Spring Common Mushroom • Daffodil • Dandelion • Leek • Morel • Salmonberry • Spring Onion • Wild Horseradish
Summer Fiddlehead Fern • Grape • Red Mushroom • Spice Berry • Sweet Pea
Fall Blackberry • Chanterelle • Common Mushroom • Hazelnut • Wild Plum
Winter Crocus • Crystal Fruit • Holly • Snow Yam • Winter Root
The Beach Clam • Cockle • Coral • Mussel • Nautilus Shell • Oyster • Rainbow Shell • Sea Urchin • Seaweed
The Mines Cave Carrot • Purple Mushroom • Red Mushroom
The Desert Cactus Fruit • Coconut
Skull Cavern Dinosaur Egg • Fiddlehead Fern
Ginger Island Ginger • Magma Cap
Category: Beach Forage