Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Pam
Information
Birthday  Spring 18
Lives In Pelican Town
Address Trailer
Family
Penny (Daughter)
Marriage No
Clinic Visit  Spring 25
Loved Gifts
Beer
Cactus Fruit
Glazed Yams
Mead
Pale Ale
Parsnip
Parsnip Soup
Piña Colada
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Anytime
5.2 Three Hearts
5.3 Seven Hearts
5.4 Nine Hearts
6 Quotes
7 Quests
8 Portraits
9 Trivia
10 History
“ “I was reading the newspaper this morning but then I got depressed. It's a rotten world, kid. Keep your head screwed on right and you'll make it through in one piece... That's what my Pappy always used to say. Heh heh heh.”
— Pam
Pam is a villager who lives in the trailer just west of the river in Pelican Town. She was the driver of the Pelican Town bus before it broke down. Once the bus service has been restored, Pam will manage the bus stop just east of the Farm, opening the way to the Desert.
While the bus service is not active, Pam can usually be found in her home until 12:00pm. She'll then walk over to JojaMart for a few hours, leaving there at 4:00pm to walk to the Stardrop Saloon. Pam is one of Gus' most loyal customers. She spends every evening in his establishment.
Schedule
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Pam may randomly spend the day there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Pam will immediately go home to bed. Pam never visits the Resort on Fall 15, Festival days, or her checkup day at Harvey's Clinic.
Shown below are Pam's schedules prioritized highest to lowest. For example, if Pam has been selected as a vendor at the desert festival, that schedule overrides all others.
Spring 16 (Bus Service Restored)
Desert Festival (As Vendor)
Spring 15 and 17 (Bus Service Restored)
Spring 25
Green Rain (Year 1)
Winter 12 and 13
Regular Schedule (No Bus Service)
Regular Schedule (Bus Service Restored)
Relationships
Pam lives with her daughter Penny. She spends every evening socializing at The Stardrop Saloon.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Pam up to two gifts per week (plus one on her birthday), which will raise or lower her friendship with you. Gifts on her birthday ( 18 Spring) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved or liked gifts, Pam responds
“ “You remembered my birthday? I'm impressed. Thanks.”
“ “Oh, is it my birthday today? I guess it is. Thanks. This is nice.”
For neutral gifts, Pam responds
“ “For my birthday? Thanks.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Pam responds
“ “It's my birthday and you give me this? Is this some kind of joke?”
Love
“ “Hey, hey! Now this is really something! Thanks a million, kid.”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Well, I'll be darned... I never expected to get a gift like this. You made my day, kid!”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Beer Drink in moderation. The Stardrop Saloon
Keg
Wheat (1)
Cactus Fruit The sweet fruit of the prickly pear cactus. Foraging - The Desert
Glazed Yams Sweet and satisfying... The sugar gives it a hint of caramel. Cooking
Yam (1)
Sugar (1)
Mead A fermented beverage made from honey. Drink in moderation. Keg
Honey (1)
Pale Ale Drink in moderation. Keg
Hops (1)
Parsnip A spring tuber closely related to the carrot. It has an earthy taste and is full of nutrients. Farming - Spring
Parsnip Soup It's fresh and hearty. Cooking
Parsnip (1)
Milk (1)
Vinegar (1)
Piña Colada Drink in moderation. Beach Resort on Sundays
Like
“ “You did good with this one, kid. Thanks!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes
All Fruit (except Cactus Fruit)
All Milk
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Neutral
“ “Thanks, kid.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals
All Fish (except Carp, Octopus, Snail, & Squid)
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Joja Cola The flagship product of Joja corporation. Fishing, JojaMart, Saloon Vending Machine, Garbage Can, Soda Machine
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
Dislike
“ “This just ain't my thing.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Fish)
All Eggs*
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - Mines
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Hate
“ “Now this is just absolutely despicable.”
If you click on Pam again after giving a Hated gift, she will say:
“ “(Is this some kind of mean joke?)”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates (except Joja Cola)
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Octopus A mysterious and intelligent creature. Fishing
Squid A deep sea creature that can grow to enormous size. Fishing
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
N/A
Like
It Howls In The Rain
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Mysterium
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Wumbus
Dislike
N/A
Love
Nachos
Stardrop Sorbet
Dislike
Apple Slices
Black Licorice
Cappuccino Mousse Cake
Hummus Snack Pack
Jasmine Tea
Kale Smoothie
Panzanella Salad
Like
Everything else
Heart Events
Anytime
At any friendship level greater than zero friendship points, you may receive a gift in the mail from Pam. The chance of receiving a gift in the mail increases as your friendship with Pam increases.
Details 
Three Hearts
After reaching 3 hearts with Pam, she will send you a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Seven Hearts
After reaching 7 hearts with Pam, she will send you a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Nine Hearts
Purchase the "Community Upgrade" from the Carpenter's Shop. After earning 9 hearts of friendship with Pam, enter Pam's house at least 4 days after the Community Upgrade is completed.
Details 
Trivia: The Yoba statue can be found later near Pam's bed on the second floor of the house, and can be removed and obtained by the player by striking it with a tool.
Quotes
Regular 


Events 
Quests
"Pam is Thirsty": Pam will send you a letter on the 14th of Summer requesting a Pale Ale. The reward is 350g and 1 Friendship heart.
"Pam Needs Juice": Pam will send you a letter on the 19th of Fall, Year 2, requesting a Battery Pack. The reward is 400g and 1 Friendship heart.
Pam may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
"The Strong Stuff": On the Special Orders board in front of the Mayor's Manor during Spring, Pam may randomly request that the player brew 12 Potato Juice and place them in the kitchen in her house. The reward is 3,000g, 250 Friendship points, and the F.I.B.S. television channel.
Portraits
Trivia
In v1.3, Pam no longer follows you into the bus when purchasing a ticket to the desert. Instead, she stands in place until the bus cutscene triggers. This may have been done to prevent the rare "disappearing Pam" bug, in which Pam would disappear from the game and never return.
History
1.3.27: Added 9-heart event. Changed bus stop animation.
1.4: Fixed bug where all recipes would be sent at 3 friendship hearts.
1.5: Added beach portraits.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Added winter portraits. Pam is no longer required to be at the Bus Stop to drive to the Calico Desert on days she is unavailable. Now neutral to Joja Cola.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs