Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Parrot Egg
Summons a level X parrot companion, who grants you a Y chance to find gold coins when slaying monsters.
Information
Source: Monsters • Crates and Barrels • Skull Cavern Treasure Rooms
Adventurer's Guild
Purchase Price: N/A
Sell Price: 1,000g
The Parrot Egg is a trinket item obtainable after claiming Combat Mastery. It can be obtained by slaying monsters or breaking crates and barrels in the Mines, Skull Cavern, or Quarry Mine. Drop chances from both methods are affected by daily luck and luck buffs, among other factors. The Burglar's Ring and Monster Compendium do not impact the chance to obtain it from monsters.[1] There is also a ≈0.6% chance to obtain a Parrot Egg from a treasure chest in the Skull Cavern.[2]
Equipping the Parrot Egg in the trinket slot causes a parrot to spawn and follow the player around. The parrot causes monsters to occasionally drop gold coins when slain. Each gold coin is worth 250g. The chance for enemies to drop coins (Y) depends on the parrot's level (X), which ranges from 1 to 4. For each gold coin an enemy drops, it has another chance to drop a gold coin. The chance for and number of gold coins dropped are not affected by Luck, enemy type, location, the Burglar's Ring, or the Monster Compendium.[3]
Contents
1 Levels
2 Gifting
3 Notes
4 References
5 History
Levels
When the Parrot Egg is dropped, its level ranges from 1 to 4, with a limit depending on the player's total earnings. Each possible level is equally likely once the player has passed the earnings threshold (e.g., there is a 50% chance to get a level 2 parrot if the player has earned between 750,000g and 1,500,000g).[4] The parrot can be changed to any possible level (accounting for the player's earnings) if re-forged on an Anvil.
Parrot Level Coin Drop Chance[3] Average Coins per Enemy[5] Average Gold per Enemy Minimum Total Earnings[4]
1 10% 0.11 27.78 0g
2 20% 0.25 62.50 750,000g
3 30% 0.43 107.14 1,500,000g
4 40% 0.67 166.67 2,250,000g
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Emily •  Leo
Like  Alex •  Wizard
Dislike  Abigail •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy
Notes
If the player's total earnings are under 750,000g, they will not be able to reforge the Parrot Egg with the Anvil, as they only have access to a Level 1 Parrot.
If the player has the Parrot Egg equipped while talking to the Pirate Cove bartender on Ginger Island, they will receive one free Mead. This can be done once per night.
References
↑ See Trinket::TrySpawnTrinket, GameLocation::monsterDrop, and BreakableContainer::releaseContents in the game code.
↑ See MineShaft::getTreasureRoomItem in the game code.
↑ 3.0 3.1 See TrinketEffect::OnDamageMonster in the game code.
↑ 4.0 4.1 See TrinketEffect::GenerateRandomStats in the game code.
↑ The expected value is a geometric series, determined by the formula p/(1-p), where p is the chance of a coin dropping.
History
1.6: Introduced.
1.6.9: Fixed bug where attempting to reforge a level 1 Parrot Egg before earning 750,000g would consume 3 Iridium Bars but not actually reforge the Egg.
Clothing
Footwear Cinderclown Shoes • Combat Boots • Cowboy Boots • Crystal Shoes • Dark Boots • Dragonscale Boots • Emily's Magic Boots • Firewalker Boots • Genie Shoes • Leather Boots • Leprechaun Shoes • Mermaid Boots • Rubber Boots • Sneakers • Space Boots • Thermal Boots • Tundra Boots • Work Boots
Hats ??? • Abigail's Bow • Arcane Hat • Archer's Cap • Beanie • Blobfish Mask • Blue Bonnet • Blue Bow • Blue Cowboy Hat • Blue Ribbon • Bluebird Mask • Bowler Hat • Bridal Veil • Bucket Hat • Butterfly Bow • Cat Ears • Chef Hat • Chicken Mask • Cone Hat • Cool Cap • Copper Pan (hat) • Cowboy Hat • Cowgal Hat • Cowpoke Hat • Daisy • Dark Ballcap • Dark Cowboy Hat • Dark Velvet Bow • Delicate Bow • Deluxe Cowboy Hat • Deluxe Pirate Hat • Dinosaur Hat • Earmuffs • Elegant Turban • Emily's Magic Hat • Eye Patch • Fashion Hat • Fedora • Fishing Hat • Flat Topped Hat • Floppy Beanie • Forager's Hat • Frog Hat • Garbage Hat • Gil's Hat • Gnome's Cap • Goblin Mask • Goggles • Gold Pan (hat) • Golden Helmet • Golden Mask • Good Ol' Cap • Governor's Hat • Green Turban • Hair Bone • Hard Hat • Hunter's Cap • Infinity Crown • Iridium Pan (hat) • Jester Hat • Joja Cap • Junimo Hat • Knight's Helmet • Laurel Wreath Crown • Leprechaun Hat • Living Hat • Logo Cap • Lucky Bow • Magic Cowboy Hat • Magic Turban • Mouse Ears • Mr. Qi's Hat • Mummy Mask • Mushroom Cap • Mystery Hat • Official Cap • Pageboy Cap • Panda Hat • Paper Hat • Party Hat (blue • green • red) • Pink Bow • Pirate Hat • Plum Chapeau • Polka Bow • Propeller Hat • Pumpkin Mask • Qi Mask • Raccoon Hat • Radioactive Goggles • Red Cowboy Hat • Red Fez • Sailor's Cap • Santa Hat • Skeleton Mask • Small Cap • Sombrero • Sou'wester • Space Helmet • Sports Cap • Spotted Headscarf • Squid Hat • Squire's Helmet • Star Helmet • Steel Pan (hat) • Straw Hat • Sunglasses • Swashbuckler Hat • Tiara • Tiger Hat • Top Hat • Totem Mask • Tricorn Hat • Tropiclip • Trucker Hat • Warrior Helmet • Watermelon Band • Wearable Dwarf Helm • White Bow • White Turban • Witch Hat
Rings Amethyst Ring • Aquamarine Ring • Burglar's Ring • Crabshell Ring • Emerald Ring • Glow Ring • Glowstone Ring • Hot Java Ring • Immunity Band • Iridium Band • Jade Ring • Jukebox Ring • Lucky Ring • Magnet Ring • Napalm Ring • Phoenix Ring • Protection Ring • Ring of Yoba • Ruby Ring • Savage Ring • Slime Charmer Ring • Small Glow Ring • Small Magnet Ring • Soul Sapper Ring • Sturdy Ring • Thorns Ring • Topaz Ring • Vampire Ring • Warrior Ring • Wedding Ring
Trinkets Basilisk Paw • Fairy Box • Frog Egg • Golden Spur • Ice Rod • Magic Hair Gel • Magic Quiver • Parrot Egg
Other Dyeing • Tailoring • Emily's Magic Shirt • Luau Skirt • Mystery Shirt • Tight Pants
Category: Trinkets