Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Pearl
A rare treasure from the sea.
Information
Source Night Market • Golden Fishing Treasure Chests • SquidFest festival • Artifact Trove • Blobfish Fish Pond • Mystery Box • Golden Mystery Box
Energy Inedible
Sell Price 2,500g
The Pearl is a special item that can be obtained in a number of ways.
Contents
1 Locations
2 Uses
3 Gifting
4 Bundles
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 References
8 History
Locations
Pearls can be found in:
7% chance from Golden Fishing Treasure Chests.[1]
0.4% chance while fishing in the submarine ride at the Night Market Festival (0.9% if using a Curiosity Lure).
1.7-1.9% chance from a Blobfish Fish Pond with a population of at least 9.
0.49% Chance from opening a Mystery Box.
0.94% Chance from opening a Golden Mystery Box.
3.7% chance from an Artifact Trove.
Received as a guaranteed gold tier reward on the 12th for the SquidFest festival.
One after solving Journal Scrap #6 on Ginger Island.
One from Willy after filling a Fish Pond with 10 Crabs.
Foraging in The Mines after activating the Shrine of Challenge or during the Danger In The Deep quest.
One by clicking on the clam shells in the correct sequence in the Mermaid Boat at the Night Market. The correct sequence is listed in Secret Note #15. Only one Pearl can be obtained from the Mermaid Boat per save file, or one per player in Multiplayer.
Correct Sequence 
Uses
Pearls can be tailored, gifted as a universally loved gift, sold for 2,500g, or placed into Fish Tanks. The Desert Trader in the Calico Desert sells one Birch Double Bed for one Pearl.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
The Pearl is not used in any bundles.
Tailoring
The Pearl is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Bridal Veil.
Quests
The Pearl is not used in any quests.
References
↑ See FishingRod::openTreasureMenuEndFunction in the game code.
History
1.3.27: Introduced.
1.4: Added Artifact Trove as a source. Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be produced by Fish Ponds.
1.5: Added Ginger Island (journal scrap) and Shrine of Challenge to sources. One can now be traded with the Desert Trader for a Birch Double Bed. Chance of catching Pearls in the submarine ride at the Night Market can now be increased by using a Curiosity Lure.
1.6: Can now be obtained from Golden Fishing Treasure Chests, Mystery Boxes and Golden Mystery Boxes. Now a prize for the SquidFest festival. Can now be used as decoration in Fish Tanks.
Category: Special items