Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Penny
Information
Birthday  Fall 2
Lives In Pelican Town
Address Trailer
Family
Pam (Mother)
Marriage Yes
Clinic Visit  Winter 4
Loved Gifts
All Books
Diamond
Emerald
Melon
Poppy
Poppyseed Muffin
Red Plate
Roots Platter
Sandfish
Tom Kha Soup
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Two Hearts
5.2 Four Hearts
5.3 Six Hearts
5.4 Eight Hearts
5.5 Ten Hearts
5.6 Group Ten-Heart Event
5.7 Fourteen Hearts
6 Marriage
7 Quotes
8 Questions
9 Quests
10 Portraits
11 Timeline
12 Trivia
13 Bugs
14 References
15 History
“ “Penny lives with her mom, Pam, in a little trailer by the river. While Pam is out carousing at the saloon, Penny quietly tends to her chores in the dim, stuffy room she is forced to call home. She is shy and modest, without any grand ambitions for life other than settling in and starting a family. She likes to cook (although her skills are questionable) and read books from the local library.”
— Dev Update #12
Penny is a villager who lives in Pelican Town. She's one of the twelve characters available to marry. Her trailer is just east of the center of town, west of the river. She tutors Vincent and Jas at the library.
Schedule
Penny can usually be found in town reading or cleaning up at the trailer. On Tuesday, Wednesday, and Friday she tutors Jas and Vincent at the museum, walking them both home afterwards. On Saturdays she'll take them to the town playground.
When it's raining Penny can either be found inside her trailer or visiting the museum looking at the selection of books.
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Penny may randomly spend the day there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Penny will immediately go home to bed. Penny never visits the Resort on Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday, Festival days, or her checkup day at Harvey's Clinic.
 Spring
 Summer
 Fall
 Winter
 Marriage
Relationships
Penny lives with her mother Pam, and she is friends with Maru and Sam. Penny dances with Sam at the Flower Dance if neither are dancing with the player.
She also teaches the local children, Jas, Vincent and when he moves to Pelican Town also Leo, at the museum a few days a week and accompanies them to the playground once in a while.
During the eight-heart cutscene, Vincent remarks that he once saw Sam and Penny climbing trees, at which Penny becomes visibly startled and scolds Vincent for gossiping. ConcernedApe has explained that he "wasn't trying to imply anything serious" with the scene regarding a continuation of Penny's interest in Sam. "[A]t 8 hearts...she's not actually interested in Sam anymore."[1]
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Penny up to two gifts per week (plus one on her birthday), which will raise or lower her friendship with you. Gifts on her birthday ( 2 Fall) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved gifts, Penny responds
“ “Oh! Is this for me? For... for my birthday?
*sniff*... Sorry.
I'm... just not used to such kindness...
... I love it, though. It's perfect. Thank you so much.”
For liked or neutral gifts, Penny responds
“ “For my birthday? That's so nice of you! It's a great gift.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Penny responds
“ “For my birthday? That's so kind of you! Let me unwrap it...
...What!?
...Oh, I see. It's a cruel joke.
Silly me, I should've known better...”
Love
“ “Thank you! I really love this!”
Any Book
“ “Thank you! I'm almost finished with a book right now, but I'll read this one next!”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Mmm... it's so fragrant. I'm going to love this.”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves (except Rabbit's Foot)
All Books
Diamond A rare and valuable gem. Mining
Emerald A precious stone with a brilliant green color. Mining
Melon A cool, sweet summer treat. Farming - Summer
Poppy In addition to its colorful flower, the Poppy has culinary and medicinal uses. Farming - Summer
Poppyseed Muffin It has a soothing effect. Cooking
Poppy (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Sugar (1)
Red Plate Full of antioxidants. Cooking
Red Cabbage (1)
Radish (1)
Roots Platter This'll get you digging for more. Cooking
Cave Carrot (1)
Winter Root (1)
Sandfish It tries to hide using camouflage. Fishing
Tom Kha Soup These flavors are incredible! Cooking
Coconut (1)
Shrimp (1)
Common Mushroom (1)
Like
“ “Thank you! This looks special.”
Ancient Drum, Ancient Sword, Chewing Stick, or Chipped Amphora
“ “Wow... this looks really old. I'll have to ask Gunther about it. Thank you!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes (except Algae Soup, Beer, Mead, Pale Ale, Pale Broth, Piña Colada, & Wine)
All Artifacts
All Milk
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Neutral
“ “Thanks, this looks nice.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals (except Books, Duck Feather, Hops, & Wool)
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
All Fruit (except Fruit Tree Fruit, Grape, Melon, & Salmonberry)
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Dislike
“ “Uh, it's for me? ...Thanks.”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Dislikes (except Artifacts, Price Catalogue, & Sandfish)
Algae Soup It's a little slimy. Cooking
Green Algae (4)
Duck Feather It's so colorful. Ducks
Pale Broth A delicate broth with a hint of sulfur. Cooking
White Algae (2)
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - Mines
Red Mushroom A spotted mushroom sometimes found in caves. Foraging
Salmonberry A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest. Foraging - Spring
Wool Soft, fluffy wool. Rabbits, Sheep
Hate
“ “Ugh...I'm sorry, but I absolutely hate this.”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Hates (except Poppy and Red Mushroom)
Beer Drink in moderation. Keg
The Stardrop Saloon
Wheat (1)
Grape A sweet cluster of fruit. Farming, Foraging
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Hops A bitter, tangy flower used to flavor beer. Farming
Mead A fermented beverage made from honey. Drink in moderation. Keg
Honey (1)
Pale Ale Drink in moderation. Keg
Hops (1)
Piña Colada Drink in moderation. The Beach Resort on Ginger Island
Rabbit's Foot Some say it's lucky. Rabbits
Wine Drink in moderation. Keg Any Fruit (1)
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
Any movie if Pam is also present
The Brave Little Sapling
Like
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Wumbus
Dislike
It Howls In The Rain
Mysterium
Love
Cotton Candy
Stardrop Sorbet
Dislike
Black Licorice
Joja Cola
JojaCorn
Sour Slimes
Like
Everything else
Heart Events
Two Hearts
Enter Pelican Town on a sunny day between 9am and 2pm.
Details 
Four Hearts
Enter the trailer when she's home.
Details 
Six Hearts
Enter the trailer when she's home.
Details 
Eight Hearts
Enter Cindersap Forest on a sunny day between 9am and 4pm.
Details 
Ten Hearts
You receive a letter from Penny. After receiving the letter, enter the pool area of the spa between 7pm and midnight.
Details 
Group Ten-Heart Event
If the player is unmarried and has given a bouquet to all available bachelorettes, raised friendship with each bachelorette to 10 hearts, and seen each bachelorette's 10-heart event, then entering Haley/Emily's House will trigger a cutscene. If Haley is the final bachelorette you share a Ten-Heart Event with, the Group Ten-Heart Event will be unavoidable as it is triggered immediately afterwards.
Details 
This event will trigger only one time per save file. This event will not trigger if you are married or have given a Wilted Bouquet or Mermaid's Pendant to one of the marriage candidates.
Fourteen Hearts
Enter the farm house between 3pm and 7pm when she's home.
Details 
Marriage
Main article: Marriage
Once married, Penny will move into the farmhouse. Like other marriage candidates, she will add her own room to the right of the bedroom. She'll also set up a small garden behind the farmhouse where she'll sometimes go to read. She will continue to work at the Museum and travel to town to work there on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
On rainy mornings, Penny may offer you Large Milk, Egg, Mixed Seeds, or a Geode. On mornings when Penny stays inside all day, she may offer you Omelet, Hashbrowns, or Pancakes for breakfast. On rainy nights she may offer you dinner: Salmon Dinner, Crispy Bass, Fried Eel, Carp Surprise, or Vegetable Medley.
Penny's room
Penny's garden
Quotes
Regular 




Events 



After Marriage 
Questions
4 Hearts, Monday:
“ “*sigh*... My mother definitely has a problem with going to the saloon too much. But it's best not to dwell on bad things, right?”
Right. It's best to be positive! (+50 friendship.)
"That's how I feel. I'm just going to focus on making the future better."
I think it's good to be realistic. (+10 friendship.)
"Maybe you're right. It's better to cope with reality."
Quests
Penny may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
Portraits
Timeline
Penny's look evolved over the years the game was in development. Here's a timeline showing how ConcernedApe's art and Penny's style changed over the years before the game was launched.
Trivia
At one point before the game was released, Penny was named "Dana".
The dialogue choices for the player in Penny's 8-Heart and 10-Heart Events have the most punitive possible effect on friendship in the game, with each event having an option that will decrease friendship with her by 1500 points (equivalent to six hearts).
The dish Penny cooks during her six heart event can be seen briefly when you eat it. It appears to be a Vegetable Medley, sharing the same sprite and restoring the same amount of energy as one.
Penny's 14-heart event can occur one time only. It will not reoccur if the player divorces her, erases her memories, and then re-marries her.
Bugs
If Penny's 10-heart event is seen before her other heart events, occasionally the bachelorette Group Ten-Heart Event will not trigger when entering Haley & Emily's house.
Penny's marriage schedule overrides any deviations. This means Penny will still walk home the children even if it is raining, even though the children are not there.
References
↑ https://www.reddit.com/r/StardewValley/comments/4b8s7v/comment/d16zqdf
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Added reading garden area behind farmhouse if married.
1.3.27: Added group 10-heart event.
1.4: Added 14 heart event. Changed 2 heart event dialogue. 6 heart event can now trigger after purchasing the Community Upgrade. Removed dialogue referencing the trailer after the community upgrade is complete.
1.4.1: Placed dressers will no longer be removed during 14 heart event.
1.4.4: Garden pots will no longer be moved during 14 heart event.
1.5: Added beach portraits. Penny now likes all artifacts. Fixed bug where 4 heart event could not be triggered after purchasing the Community Upgrade.
1.5.3: Existing bed will now be placed in a chest instead of being outright replaced during the redecoration in the 14 heart event.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Added winter portraits and more beach and regular portraits. Added Penny Portrait. Penny's 8-heart event cannot happen on rainy days, Trout Derby days, or Summer 17, 18, or 19. Fourteen-heart event decorations can now be purchased at Penny's shop during the Desert Festival.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: Marriage candidates