Jump to navigation
Jump to search
The Perfection score measures how much of the game content a player has completed. Achieving a score of 100% unlocks extra endgame content.
Contents
1 Perfection system
2 Multiplayer
3 Unlocked content
4 Perfection Waivers
5 Notes
6 External Links
7 History
Perfection system
Main article: Qi's Walnut Room#Perfection Tracker
The "Perfection Tracker" statue in Qi's Walnut Room on Ginger Island shows the current perfection value. This value cannot be seen in-game before unlocking the room. The value is the average score across these categories:
Name Requirement Total Required Percentage Breakdown
Produce & Forage Shipped Ship one of every item in the Items Shipped (Farm & Forage) tab in the collections menu. 155 15%
Obelisks on Farm Build Earth Obelisk, Water Obelisk, Desert Obelisk, and Island Obelisk on the farm. 4 4%
Golden Clock on Farm Build Gold Clock on the farm. 1 10%
Monster Slayer Hero Complete all monster eradication goals for the Adventurer's Guild. 12 10%
Great Friends Reach maximum hearts with every villager. This includes Kent, so it is not possible to complete this in year 1. Note: The "maximum hearts" for datable villagers is 8, and for non-datable villagers, 10 is the max. If the player has children, their friendship status does not affect the score. 34 11%
Farmer Level Reach level 10 in every skill. 25 5%
Found All Stardrops Find all Stardrops. 7 10%
Cooking Recipes Made Cook every recipe. 81 10%
Crafting Recipes Made Craft all items. The Wedding Ring is not required, even in Multiplayer games. 149 10%
Fish Caught Catch every fish in the Fish tab in the collections menu. 72 10%
Golden Walnuts found Find all Golden Walnuts on Ginger Island. 130 5%
Multiplayer
In Multiplayer games, the Perfection Tracker will show a single perfection score shared across all players. The percentage breakdown for each category (with the exception of "Golden Walnuts Found", since Golden Walnuts are shared among all players) will show the highest score any of the players in the game have completed. For example, this means that only one person needs to catch every fish for the score to show 100% for that category. Similarly, only one Gold Clock needs to be built to get a value of "Yes" for "Golden Clock on Farm." However, the scores cannot be split amongst players. For example, if one player completes half of the Monster Eradication Goals and another player completes the other half, the value for "Monster Slayer Hero" will be "No" as no player in the game has actually completed all of them.
The Wedding Ring does not need to be crafted to achieve Perfection.
Unlocked content
Reaching a perfection score of 100% unlocks additional endgame content the next day. That includes:
Text appears the morning after Perfection is achieved, saying "You feel it in your heart: somewhere, somehow... Grandpa is beaming with pride. The legacy of (Farm's name) Farm is eternal."
A message appears the morning after Perfection is achieved, saying "A rumbling sound was heard in the distance...". This unlocks access to the Summit. The player can view a special cutscene the first time they visit.
A flock of Ginger Island parrots flies over the Farm.
The Statue Of True Perfection is unlocked, obtained by interacting with the Perfection Tracker statue in Qi's Walnut Room.
Golden Eggs and Golden Chickens are unlocked, with the first egg available either via Marnie's Ranch, Qi's Walnut Room, a random Golden Witch event, or from a Fishing Treasure Chest.
The ??? hat can be found by interacting with a monkey in the Volcano Caldera.
A stone carving of a Stardrop appears above Grandpa's Shrine.
Perfection Waivers
After having interacted with the "Perfection Tracker" statue in Qi's Walnut Room on Ginger Island for the first time, Fizz, a Joja employee working in the "Joja Special Services Division", will send the player a letter inviting them to meet him in the "watery cave" on Ginger Island.
“ “Hello.
I have the 'perfect' solution to help you out.
Meet me in the watery cave on Ginger Island.
-Fizz
Joja Special Services Division”
The "watery cave" is the mushroom cave on Ginger Island where Professor Snail is initially found.
Fizz will offer to sell the player perfection waivers in order to bypass perfection challenges. For 500,000g players can increase their perfection score by 1%.
Players can receive this letter even if they have already achieved perfection.
Notes
If a player reached perfection in a previous version of the game, the "Perfection Tracker" statue in Qi's Walnut Room will show that the player has not reached perfection if they haven't cooked all the new foods, caught the new fish, crafted all the new recipes, and shipped all of the new items. However, The Summit remains accessible if it was unlocked before.
It is cheaper to buy perfection waivers than to build the obelisks and golden clock. Those buildings cost a total of 13,000,000g to build and provide 14% of perfection. 14 perfection waivers only cost 7,000,000g, saving a total of 6,000,000g.
External Links
Players with access to their saved game files may find the "Stardew Checkup" utility helpful for tracking their perfection score before unlocking the walnut room, as well as to track what they are still missing to achieve it. This utility is located at https://mouseypounds.github.io/stardew-checkup/.
History
1.5: Introduced.
1.6: Introduced Perfection Waivers and Fizz (NPC). Introduced 10 new shipping items, 5 new fish, 1 new cooking recipe, and 20 new crafting recipes included for Perfection.
Categories: GameplayAchievements