Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Pierre's General Store
Open Hours: Shop: 9am to 5pm
Building: 9am to 9pm
Closed: Wednesday (Only if community center hasn't been restored)
Address: North of Town Square
Occupants:
Pierre
Caroline
Abigail
Pierre's General Store sells various seeds, saplings, fertilizer, ingredients and other useful items. As well as selling those items, Pierre also buys foraged items, crops and crop seeds, artisan goods, cooked dishes, and animal products from the player. This avoids waiting overnight for shipping, but does not count as shipping for the purpose of achievements or collections. Some products in stock, namely seeds, will vary from season to season and others are in-stock year-round. Pierre's main competitor in the valley is JojaMart.
Outside of Pierre's General Store to the left of the entrance, the player can find a calendar and a "Help Wanted" board.
Pierre's General Store is normally open most days at 9am, three hours after the player wakes up, and closes at 5pm. The player can enter the building until 9pm, but Pierre leaves the sales counter at 5pm every day, so the shop cannot actually be used to purchase or sell goods after 5pm. This is because the building also serves as Pierre's family home.
Tip: When purchasing items, the player can buy multiples of 5 by holding Shift + right- or left-click, multiples of 25 by holding Control + Shift + right- or left-click, and a full stack of 999 by holding Control + Shift + 1 + left-click.
Contents
1 Events
2 Year-Round Stock
3 Spring Stock
4 Summer Stock
5 Fall Stock
6 Player-Derived Stock
7 Living quarters
8 Bugs
9 Trivia
10 Gallery
11 History
Events
Several events can affect the store's operating hours and stock.
Pierre stays closed on Wednesday unless all of the Community Center bundles are finished or the player obtains the Key To The Town, and then Pierre's General Store will be open 7 days a week.
By returning Pierre's Missing Stocklist, he will sell seeds from every season all year-round (at a 50% markup for out-of-season seeds).
Seeds which are not sold until year 2 will not be included in this stock expansion in year 1, and players will still need to wait until year 2 to purchase them.
After having 8 hearts of friendship with a marriage candidate, a bouquet of flowers will also be available for purchase.
Year-Round Stock
Image Name Description Price
Grass Starter Place this on your farm to start a new patch of grass. 100g
Grass Starter (Recipe) A recipe to make Grass Starter 1,000g
Sugar Adds sweetness to pastries and candies. Too much can be unhealthy. 100g
Wheat Flour A common cooking ingredient made from crushed wheat seeds. 100g
Rice A basic grain often served under vegetables. 200g
Oil All purpose cooking oil. 200g
Vinegar An aged fermented liquid used in many cooking recipes. 200g
Basic Fertilizer Improves soil quality a little, increasing your chance to grow quality crops. Mix into tilled soil.
(Available from spring 15 of year 1 onward) 100g
Quality Fertilizer Improves soil quality, increasing your chance to grow quality crops. Mix into tilled soil.
(Available from year 2 onward) 150g
Basic Retaining Soil This soil has a chance of staying watered overnight. Mix into tilled soil.
(Available from spring 15 of year 1 onward) 100g
Quality Retaining Soil This soil has a good chance of staying watered overnight. Mix into tilled soil.
(Available from year 2 onward) 150g
Speed-Gro Stimulates leaf production. Guaranteed to increase growth rate by at least 10%. Mix into tilled soil.
(Available from spring 15 of year 1 onward) 100g
Deluxe Speed-Gro Stimulates leaf production. Guaranteed to increase growth rate by at least 25%. Mix into tilled soil.
(Available from year 2 onward) 150g
Wallpaper (Random each day) Decorates the walls of one room. 200g
Flooring (Random each day) Decorates the floor of one room. 200g
Cherry Sapling Takes 28 days to produce a mature Cherry tree. Bears fruit in the spring. Only grows if the 8 surrounding "tiles" are empty. 3,400g
Apricot Sapling Takes 28 days to produce a mature Apricot tree. Bears fruit in the spring. Only grows if the 8 surrounding "tiles" are empty. 2,000g
Orange Sapling Takes 28 days to produce a mature Orange tree. Bears fruit in the summer. Only grows if the 8 surrounding "tiles" are empty. 4,000g
Peach Sapling Takes 28 days to produce a mature Peach tree. Bears fruit in the summer. Only grows if the 8 surrounding "tiles" are empty. 6,000g
Pomegranate Sapling Takes 28 days to produce a mature Pomegranate tree. Bears fruit in the fall. Only grows if the 8 surrounding "tiles" are empty. 6,000g
Apple Sapling Takes 28 days to produce a mature Apple tree. Bears fruit in the fall. Only grows if the 8 surrounding "tiles" are empty. 4,000g
Catalogue Provides unlimited access to all wallpapers and floors... from the convenience of your home! 30,000g
Dehydrator (Recipe) A recipe to make Dehydrator 10,000g
Bouquet A gift that shows your romantic interest.
(Unlocked after reaching 8 hearts with a marriage candidate) 200g
Pierre also sells backpack upgrades that can be purchased by the player. These appear at the right side of the counter, instead of in Pierre's "shop" menu.
Image Name Price Description Available
Large Pack 2,000g Unlocks the 2nd row of inventory (12 more slots, total 24). At the start of the game
Deluxe Pack 10,000g Unlocks the 3rd row of inventory (12 more slots, total 36). After purchasing the Large Pack.
Spring Stock
Image Name Description Price
Spring Out of season
Parsnip Seeds Plant these in the spring. Takes 4 days to mature. 20g 30g
Bean Starter Plant these in the spring. Takes 10 days to mature, but keeps producing after that. Grows on a trellis. 60g 90g
Cauliflower Seeds Plant these in the spring. Takes 12 days to produce a large cauliflower. 80g 120g
Potato Seeds Plant these in the spring. Takes 6 days to mature, and has a chance of yielding multiple potatoes at harvest. 50g 75g
Tulip Bulb Plant in spring. Takes 6 days to produce a colorful flower. Assorted colors. 20g 30g
Kale Seeds Plant these in the spring. Takes 6 days to mature. Harvest with the scythe. 70g 105g
Jazz Seeds Plant in spring. Takes 7 days to produce a blue puffball flower. 30g 45g
Garlic Seeds Plant these in the spring. Takes 4 days to mature.
(Available in year 2+) 40g 60g
Rice Shoot Plant these in the spring. Takes 8 days to mature. Grows faster if planted near a body of water. Harvest with the scythe.
(Available in year 2+) 40g 60g
Summer Stock
Image Name Description Price
Summer Out of season
Melon Seeds Plant these in the summer. Takes 12 days to mature. 80g 120g
Tomato Seeds Plant these in the summer. Takes 11 days to mature, and continues to produce after first harvest. 50g 75g
Blueberry Seeds Plant these in the summer. Takes 13 days to mature, and continues to produce after first harvest. 80g 120g
Pepper Seeds Plant these in the summer. Takes 5 days to mature, and continues to produce after first harvest. 40g 60g
Wheat Seeds Plant these in the summer or fall. Takes 4 days to mature. Harvest with the scythe. 10g 15g
Radish Seeds Plant these in the summer. Takes 6 days to mature. 40g 60g
Poppy Seeds Plant in summer. Produces a bright red flower in 7 days. 100g 150g
Spangle Seeds Plant in summer. Takes 8 days to produce a vibrant tropical flower. Assorted colors. 50g 75g
Hops Starter Plant these in the summer. Takes 11 days to grow, but keeps producing after that. Grows on a trellis. 60g 90g
Corn Seeds Plant these in the summer or fall. Takes 14 days to mature, and continues to produce after first harvest. 150g 225g
Sunflower Seeds Plant in summer or fall. Takes 8 days to produce a large sunflower. Yields more seeds at harvest. 200g 300g
Red Cabbage Seeds Plant these in the summer. Takes 9 days to mature.
(Available in year 2+) 100g 150g
Fall Stock
Image Name Description Price
Fall Out of season
Eggplant Seeds Plant these in the fall. Takes 5 days to mature, and continues to produce after first harvest. 20g 30g
Corn Seeds Plant these in the summer or fall. Takes 14 days to mature, and continues to produce after first harvest. 150g 225g
Pumpkin Seeds Plant these in the fall. Takes 13 days to mature. 100g 150g
Bok Choy Seeds Plant these in the fall. Takes 4 days to mature. 50g 75g
Yam Seeds Plant these in the fall. Takes 10 days to mature. 60g 90g
Cranberry Seeds Plant these in the fall. Takes 7 days to mature, and continues to produce after first harvest. 240g 360g
Sunflower Seeds Plant in summer or fall. Takes 8 days to produce a large sunflower. Yields more seeds at harvest. 200g 300g
Fairy Seeds Plant in fall. Takes 12 days to produce a mysterious flower. Assorted Colors. 200g 300g
Amaranth Seeds Plant these in the fall. Takes 7 days to grow. Harvest with the scythe. 70g 105g
Grape Starter Plant these in the fall. Takes 10 days to grow, but keeps producing after that. Grows on a trellis. 60g 90g
Wheat Seeds Plant these in the summer or fall. Takes 4 days to mature. Harvest with the scythe. 10g 15g
Artichoke Seeds Plant these in the fall. Takes 8 days to mature.
(Available in year 2+) 30g 45g
Player-Derived Stock
If the player chooses to sell items to Pierre, there is a chance they will appear in the list of items for sale, especially if sold to Pierre in large quantity. Any of these items that are edible will be available for purchase in limited quantities. Additional villager dialogues may appear indicating they've seen or purchased the items. Villagers tend to be disgusted by those of normal quality and enjoy silver or higher quality items.
Living quarters
Abigail's room and Pierre/Caroline's bedroom are to the north of the shop. In the middle is a large area used for exercise class on Tuesdays from 1-4pm, which Caroline, Jodi, Robin, Emily and Marnie will attend. To the top right is the Kitchen and a door to Caroline's sun room. To the east is a shrine of Yoba which is used for religious ceremonies on Sundays.
Bugs
After obtaining the Key To The Town, Pierre will stand behind the sales counter at 6am. At 7am he will leave the sales counter and walk to the store shelves, and the player will be unable to purchase anything. At 8:30am he will leave the store shelves and return to the sales counter.
Trivia
Pierre often takes credit for finding or cooking items that the player has sold to him as player-derived stock.
In Winter, when walking into the shop, Pierre might say: "Welcome to Pierre's heated shop!" Upon talking to him, he says: "Is it just me or is there a cold draft in here?".
In Winter, when walking into the shop, Pierre might say: "Seeds for sale!" despite not selling seeds during winter.
When entering Pierre's shop, there is a low chance for a dialogue bubble to pop up with him saying "Did you remember your wallet?".
Gallery
Interior
History
1.4: Fixed bug where pressing Alt+Enter inside shop menu would destroy a held item. Pierre no longer accepts fish as player-derived stock; instead Willy does.
1.6: Added Dehydrator recipe to the shop's stock. Fixed world map tooltip for Pierre’s shop still showing “closed on Wednesdays” after he extends his business hours. On PC, holding left-shift + left-ctrl + 1 when buying from a shop will attempt to buy a stack of 999. Price of flooring and wallpaper increased from 100g to 200g. Fixed exploit allowing the player to sell Qi Fruit to Pierre then buy it back after the "Qi's Crop" Special Order had expired. Fixed exploit that allowed the player to sell Artisan Goods to Pierre at the Artisan price, change profession at the Statue Of Uncertainty, then buy the items back at a cheaper price.
Buildings
Merchants Abandoned House • Adventurer's Guild • Blacksmith • Bookseller • Carpenter's Shop • Casino • Desert Trader • Fish Shop • Giant Stump • Harvey's Clinic • Ice Cream Stand • Island Trader • JojaMart • Marnie's Ranch • Oasis • Pierre's General Store • Qi's Walnut Room • The Stardrop Saloon • Traveling Cart • Volcano Dwarf • Wizard's Tower
Houses 1 River Road • 2 River Road • 1 Willow Lane • 2 Willow Lane • 24 Mountain Road • Elliott's Cabin • Farmhouse • Island Farmhouse • Leah's Cottage • Mayor's Manor • Tent • Trailer • Treehouse
Farm Buildings Farming Barn • Cabin • Coop • Fish Pond • Greenhouse • Mill • Pet Bowl • Shed • Silo • Slime Hutch • Stable • Well
Special Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Gold Clock • Island Obelisk • Junimo Hut • Water Obelisk
Other Buildings Community Center • Dog Pen • Island Field Office • Joja Warehouse • Movie Theater • Museum • Spa • Witch's Hut
Categories: Town LocationsStores