Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Pierre
Information
Birthday  Spring 26
Lives In Pelican Town
Address Pierre's General Store
Family
Caroline (Wife)
Abigail (Daughter)
Marriage No
Loved Gifts
Fried Calamari
Price Catalogue
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Anytime
5.2 Three Hearts
5.3 Six Hearts
6 Quotes
7 Quests
8 Portraits
9 Trivia
10 History
“ “If you're looking for seeds, my shop is the place to go. I'll also buy produce from you for a good price! A little agriculture could really inject new life into the local economy!”
— Pierre
Pierre is a villager who lives in Pelican Town. He owns and runs Pierre's General Store.
Schedule
Pierre can be found running his general store each day between 9am and 5pm (except Wednesday when the store is closed). After the Community Center has been fully restored his store will be open every day of the week.
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Pierre may randomly spend the day there. (He will leave a cash box on the counter of the store, so the player is still able to make purchases.) After leaving the Island at 6pm, Pierre will immediately go home to bed. Pierre never visits the Resort on Festival days.
Green Rain (Year 1)
Spring 15 (Bus Service Restored)
Desert Festival (As Vendor)
Rain
Friday
Regular Schedule
Relationships
Pierre lives with his wife Caroline and their daughter Abigail behind his shop. On Friday evenings he socializes with other villagers at the Stardrop Saloon, but outside that he only interacts with others at his store.
He feels threatened by JojaMart and Morris' attempts to draw his customers away from the store, and worries that he won't be able to make as much money because of this.
He has a strained relationship with Abigail due to their different beliefs, as shown in a few cutscenes.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Pierre up to two gifts per week (plus one on his birthday), which will raise or lower his friendship with you. Gifts on his birthday ( 26 Spring) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved or liked gifts, Pierre responds
“ “A birthday gift? That's very kind of you! I love it.”
“ “You remembered my birthday! Thank you. This is great.”
For neutral gifts, Pierre responds
“ “Oh, a birthday gift! Thank you.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Pierre responds
“ “Oh... It's for my birthday? ... Thanks.”
Love
“ “This is my all-time favorite! Thank you!”
Price Catalogue
“ “Gripping! Fascinating! It's the perfect book for me!”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Wow, I can't believe you'd give this to me. It must've cost you a fortune! Thanks!”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Fried Calamari It's so chewy. Cooking
Squid (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Oil (1)
Price Catalogue You can now see the value of your items. Bookseller
Like
“ “That's very kind of you. I like this.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes (except Corn, Garlic, Foraged Minerals, Gems other than Diamond & Prismatic Shard, Parsnip Soup, & Tortilla)
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
All Milk
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Neutral
“ “A present? Thanks!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals
All Fruit (except Fruit Tree Fruit & Salmonberry)
Dislike
“ “This isn't exactly my favorite...”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Fish & Price Catalogue)
All Foraged Minerals
All Gems (other than Diamond & Prismatic Shard)
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Salmonberry A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
Hate
“ “Please, never bring this to me again.”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Hates
All Fish
Corn One of the most popular grains. The sweet, fresh cobs are a summer favorite. Crops - Summer, Fall
Garlic Adds a wonderful zestiness to dishes. High quality garlic can be pretty spicy. Crops - Spring (years 2+)
Parsnip Soup It's fresh and hearty. Cooking
Parsnip (1)
Milk (1)
Vinegar (1)
Tortilla Can be used as a vessel for food or eaten by itself. Cooking
Corn (1)
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
Wumbus
Like
It Howls In The Rain
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Mysterium
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Dislike
N/A
Love
Personal Pizza
Stardrop Sorbet
Dislike
Black Licorice
Joja Cola
JojaCorn
Like
Everything else
Heart Events
Anytime
At any friendship level greater than zero friendship points, you may receive gold in the mail from Pierre. The chance of receiving gold in the mail increases as your friendship with Pierre increases.
Details 

Three Hearts
After reaching 3 hearts with Pierre, he will send you a recipe in the mail.
Details 
Six Hearts
Enter Pierre's General Store to trigger the cutscene.
Details 
Quotes
Regular 

Events 


Quests
"Pierre's Notice": Pierre will send you a letter on the 21st of Spring, Year 2, requesting Sashimi. The reward is 1,000g and 1 Friendship heart.
Pierre may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside his store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
"Pierre's Prime Produce": On the Special Orders board in front of the Mayor's Manor, Pierre may randomly request that the player harvest 25 Gold-quality vegetables and place them in the bin inside the General Store. The reward is 2,500g and a Mini-Shipping Bin.
Portraits
Trivia
According to his daughter, Abigail, Pierre is allergic to cats, and also "pretty much everything".
According to himself, Pierre was a great boxer back in the day. His right hook was "the stuff of legends".
Pierre is inaccessible during most festivals where he is running a stall, but there is dialogue for him in the game's data files.
He may have been inspired by Rick in Harvest Moon 64.
If the player has the Beach Resort on Ginger Island unlocked, it is possible for Pierre to say he would prefer to be outside, while outside.
History
1.5: Added beach portraits.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Added winter portraits.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs