Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Preserves Jar
Turns vegetables into pickles and fruit into jam.
Information
Source Crafting
Sell Price Cannot be sold
Crafting
Recipe Source
Farming (Level 4)
Ingredients
Wood (50)
Stone (40)
Coal (8)
For a detailed analysis of profit using the Preserves Jar, see Preserves Jar Productivity.
The Preserves Jar is a type of Artisan Equipment used to make Artisan Goods. Fruit makes Jelly; Mushrooms, Vegetables, and foraged items make Pickles; Sturgeon Roe makes Caviar; and other fish Roe make their respective Aged Roe.
A Preserves Jar is the reward for completing the Quality Crops Bundle in the Pantry or the Rare Crops Bundle in the Pantry (Remixed).
4 Preserves Jars can be obtained as the seventh prize from the Prize Machine in the Mayor's Manor (33% chance).
Contents
1 Products
2 Preserves Jar vs. Keg
3 Storage Options
4 Trivia
5 References
6 History
Products
Quality of ingredients makes no difference to the finished product. The value of the finished product is determined using the base value (i.e., with no silver or gold star) of the item. However, the preserved version is always at least as profitable as even gold star produce, although the profit margin is lower compared to normal produce.
Note that processing times are approximate, since time passes differently from 2am to 6am. One hour = 60 minutes from 6am to 2am, but 1 hour = 100 minutes from 2am to 6am. One full day is 1600 minutes, where day is 1200 minutes and night is 400 minutes.
Image Name Description Ingredients Processing Time[1] Sell Price Energy / Health
Pickles A jar of your home-made pickles. One of:
Any vegetable (1)
Any mushroom (1) (except Red Mushroom)
Any positive energy Forage (1)
4000m (2-3 days) 2 × Base Ingredient Price + 50
1.75 × Base Ingredient Energy
1.75 × Base Ingredient Health
Jelly Gooey. Any fruit (1) 4000m (2-3 days) 2 × Base Fruit Price + 50
2 × Base Fruit Energy
2 × Base Fruit Health
Caviar The cured roe of a sturgeon fish. Considered to be a luxurious delicacy!
Sturgeon Roe (1)
6000m (4 days) 500g
175
78
Aged Roe Fish eggs aged in salt to bring out the flavor.
Roe (1)
4000m (2-3 days) 2 × Base Roe Price
100
45
Notes
Items that have a 4000m processing time starting at 6:00am are done at 7:20pm two days later. Items starting between 12:40pm and 7:20pm are done at 6:00am three days later.
If Caviar processing is started at 6am it finishes at 2am three days later, making it impossible to collect that day. It is ready four days later at the start of the day if processing begins before 12:40 pm. If it were to be started at 1:50am (the latest time it could be started), it would be finished at 7:10pm four days later.
Truffles are not classified as Mushrooms and therefore cannot be placed into the Preserves Jar.
Pickles made from an inedible vegetable will instead give 0.625 × Base Vegetable Price and 0.28125 × Base Vegetable Price.[2]
Jelly made from an inedible fruit will instead give 0.5 × Base Fruit Price and 0.225 × Base Fruit Price.[3]
The following foraged items can be pickled: Wild Horseradish, Leek, Dandelion, Cave Carrot, Morel, Chanterelle, Spring Onion, Common Mushroom, Hazelnut, Winter Root, Snow Yam, Purple Mushroom, Ginger, and Magma Cap.
Preserves Jar vs. Keg
See also: Preserves Jar Productivity, Keg Productivity
The Preserves Jar increases the profit of a crop using the following equation: (2 × Base Crop Value + 50); while the Keg multiplies the base value of Fruits by 3, and Vegetables by 2.25. Because of this, low-value, high-yield crops like Corn or Tomatoes are more valuable in the preserves jar. The keg, on the other hand, favors crops with a much higher base value, such as Ancient Fruit or Melons. The breakpoint is 50g for fruits and 200g for vegetables.
Below is a list of crops that are more beneficial to be put in the preserves jar, along with their raw base sell price.
Vegetables Fruits
Amaranth (150g)
Artichoke (160g)
Beet (100g)
Bok Choy (80g)
Broccoli (70g)
Carrot (35g)
Cauliflower (175g)
Corn (50g)
Eggplant (60g)
Fiddlehead Fern (90g)
Garlic (60g)
Green Bean (40g)
Kale (110g)
Parsnip (35g)
Potato (80g)
Radish (90g)
Summer Squash (45g)
Taro Root (100g)
Tea Leaves (50g)
Tomato (60g)
Unmilled Rice (30g)
Yam (160g)
Apricot (50g)*
Blackberry (20g)
Blueberry (50g)*
Hot Pepper (40g)
Qi Fruit (1g)
Salmonberry (5g)
*Wine and jelly each sell for 150g, but jelly processes faster than wine.
It should be noted that these calculations only involve the value gained in terms of max profit; if looking at profit per day based on the time required, the preserves jar outpaces the keg regardless of the base value of the item (in every case except for Hops and Wheat) since the preserves jar has a much faster processing time.
Storage Options
See also: Keg storage options, Crafted goods outside the farm
While Preserves Jars can be stored anywhere on the farm, it is more space efficient to store them inside farm buildings or outside the farm altogether.
Trivia
The description of the Preserves Jar states that it makes Jam, but it actually produces Jelly.
The description of the Preserves Jar was not updated to include fish roe or caviar in v1.4.
References
↑ See Object::performObjectDropInAction in the game code and Data/ObjectInformation.xnb for corresponding items IDs and categories.
↑ See ObjectDataDefinition::CreateFlavoredPickle in the game code.
↑ See ObjectDataDefinition::CreateFlavoredJelly in the game code.
History
1.4: Added ability to make Caviar and Aged Roe. Adjusted processing time so that machines process 100 minutes from 2am to 6am, not every hour the player is asleep. Preserves Jars can now be stacked in a player's inventory and in chests.
1.5: Pickled Ginger added.
1.6: Pickled Carrot, Summer Squash, Broccoli, Wild Horseradish, Leek, Dandelion, Spring Onion, Winter Root, Snow Yam, Hazelnut, Cave Carrot, Purple Mushroom, Chanterelle, Common Mushroom, Morel, and Magma Cap added. Powdermelon Jam and Aged Clam and Goby Roe added. Now obtainable from the Prize Machine.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Category: Craftable items