Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Professor Snail
Information
Birthday Unknown
Lives In Ginger Island
Address Island Field Office
Marriage No
Loved Gifts N/A
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Quests/Events
3 Quotes
4 Portraits
5 History
“ “One more cave mushroom salad and I would've gone off the deep end...”
— Professor Snail
Professor Snail lives on Ginger Island and runs the Island Field Office. Before freeing him, Professor Snail is trapped in a cave on the northeastern side of the Dig Site. The Dig Site is accessible to the player by paying the parrots 10 Golden Walnuts to repair the bridge near the field office. Once the bridge has been repaired, he can be freed with any explosion (from a bomb or Explosive Ammo). One hit with any slingshot works, but the player must aim carefully.
After freeing him, he explains that he has been conducting a survey of the island's flora and fauna for a year. He returns to his tent on Ginger Island, where he accepts donations in exchange for Golden Walnuts.
The cave where he was trapped becomes a mushroom cave, where mushrooms can be foraged by the player.
Schedule
After freeing Professor Snail from the mushroom cave, he does not leave the Island Field Office desk.
Quests/Events
Professor Snail will reward players for donating items to the Island Field Office.
Professor Snail will reward players for correctly answering questions on his Island Survey inside the Island Field Office.
Quotes
Expand
First Meeting 
Expand
Field Office Quest 
Portraits
History
1.5: Introduced.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs