Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Purple Mushroom
A rare mushroom found deep in caves.
Information
Source Foraging • The Farm Cave • Mushroom Tree • Mushroom Log
Location The Mines • Forest Farm • Ginger Island mushroom cave
Season  All
XP
The Mines: 7 Foraging XP
The Farm Cave: 5 Foraging XP
Mushroom Trees: 0
Energy / Health
125
56
175
78
225
101
325
146
Sell Price
250g
312g
375g
500g
Artisan Sell Prices
Base Artisan (+40%)
550g
1,900g
770g
2,660g
The Purple Mushroom can be found:
via foraging in the Mines (starting at floor 81) or the Skull Cavern.
at a tapped or chopped Mushroom Tree.
grown in the Farm Cave if converted for mushrooms (2.5% chance).
as a possible gift at the Feast of the Winter Star from any adult except Clint, Evelyn, Marnie, Robin, or Willy.
occasionally in a Garbage Can after the player has reached floor 40 of the Mines.
occasionally at the Traveling Cart for 750–1,250g.
through the mail from the Wizard at any friendship level greater than zero friendship points.
on the Forest Farm Map during Fall (25% chance).
in the Ginger Island mushroom cave.
on a Mushroom Log.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Recipes
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Wizard
Like  Demetrius •  Harvey •  Leah •  Linus •  Maru
Neutral  Abigail •  Alex •  Clint •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Kent •  Lewis •  Marnie •  Pam •  Robin •  Sandy
Dislike  Caroline •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Haley •  Jas •  Jodi •  Krobus •  Leo •  Penny •  Pierre •  Sam •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy
Bundles
Purple Mushroom is used in the Field Research Bundle on the Bulletin Board.
Purple Mushroom is one of the options for the Exotic Foraging Bundle in the Crafts Room.
Five Purple Mushrooms are one of the options for the Wild Medicine Bundle in the Crafts Room (Remixed).
Recipes
Image Name Description Ingredients Energy / Health Recipe Source(s) Sell Price
Life Elixir Restores health to full.
Red Mushroom (1)
Purple Mushroom (1)
Morel (1)
Chanterelle (1)
0
100%
Combat Level 2
250g
Tailoring
Purple Mushroom is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with Cloth in the feed to create a Shirt. It is a purple dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed. It can be placed in the purple dye pot at Emily's and Haley's house for use in dyeing.
Quests
After the player reach the bottom of the Mines, one Purple Mushroom may be randomly requested during any season at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store for a reward of 750g and 150 Friendship points.
2-3 Purple Mushrooms may be requested by Catfish, Octopus, Rainbow Trout, Spook Fish, or Super Cucumber in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 5 to 7.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests.
1.5: Can be found in the Ginger Island mushroom cave. Is now an option for the Wild Medicine Bundle.
1.6: Can now be produced by a Mushroom Log. Now liked by Maru. Can now be made into Pickles. Mushrooms from the Farm Cave now give 5 Foraging XP each.
Foraging
Basic Sap
Spring Common Mushroom • Daffodil • Dandelion • Leek • Morel • Salmonberry • Spring Onion • Wild Horseradish
Summer Fiddlehead Fern • Grape • Red Mushroom • Spice Berry • Sweet Pea
Fall Blackberry • Chanterelle • Common Mushroom • Hazelnut • Wild Plum
Winter Crocus • Crystal Fruit • Holly • Snow Yam • Winter Root
The Beach Clam • Cockle • Coral • Mussel • Nautilus Shell • Oyster • Rainbow Shell • Sea Urchin • Seaweed
The Mines Cave Carrot • Purple Mushroom • Red Mushroom
The Desert Cactus Fruit • Coconut
Skull Cavern Dinosaur Egg • Fiddlehead Fern
Ginger Island Ginger • Magma Cap
Categories: Mines ForageMushrooms