Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Qi Fruit
Mr. Qi has challenged you to ship 500 of these strange melons.
Information
Seed
Qi Bean
Growth Time 4 days
Season  All
Energy / Health
3
1
Sell Prices
Base Tiller (+10%)
1g
1g
Artisan Sell Prices
Base Artisan (+40%)
3g
3g
4g
6g
52g
32g
4g
4g
5g
8g
72g
44g
The Qi Fruit is a fruit crop that grows from Qi Beans after 4 days. This fruit is only available during the "Qi's Crop" quest. Qi Fruit is one of only five crops that can grow into a giant crop.
All Qi Fruit and Qi Beans despawn when the quest is over (i.e., the day after the player ships them or the quest timer ends), including growing crops, all players' inventories, Chests, Preserves Jars, Kegs, and Marlon's Item Recovery Service list.
Giant Qi Fruit do not disappear when the quest is over, and they can be harvested during future quests to yield more Qi Fruit. If a player chops down a giant Qi Fruit when the "Qi's Crop" quest is not active, then they will receive one Mystery Box instead of fruit. The first time this is done, Mr. Qi will send a taunting message to the player.
Qi Fruit is always normal quality.
Contents
1 Stages
2 Crop Growth Calendar
3 Gifting
4 Bundles
5 Quests
6 Tailoring
7 Notes
8 History
Stages
Qi Fruit can become a Giant Crop.
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Harvest
1 Day 1 Day 1 Day 1 Day Total: 4 Days
Crop Growth Calendar
Base
Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun
Expand
Agriculturist and Speed-Gro Comparison
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Demetrius •  Elliott •  Harvey •  Jodi •  Kent •  Leah •  Linus •  Pam •  Robin •  Sandy •  Shane
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Dwarf •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Jas •  Krobus •  Leo •  Lewis •  Marnie •  Maru •  Penny •  Pierre •  Sam •  Sebastian •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Qi Fruit is not used in any bundles.
Quests
Mr. Qi requests the player to ship 500 Qi Fruit in 28 days in the "Qi's Crop" quest. The reward is 100.
Tailoring
Qi Fruit is used in the spool of Sewing Machine with Cloth in the feed to create a Qi Mask. It can be placed in the blue dye pot at Emily's and Haley's house for use in dyeing.
Notes
Although Qi Fruit benefits from the Tiller Profession, its sell price with the extra 10% is 1.1g, which is truncated to 1g in the game code.
Qi Fruit jelly and wine do not despawn after the quest is completed.
History
1.5: Introduced.
1.5.2: Can now be grown on the Farm during Winter.
1.5.3: Qi Fruits are now properly removed from any machines/craftables and from Marlon's Item Recovery Service after the "Qi's Crop" quest expires.
1.6: Can now grow into a giant crop. Removed exploit where Qi Fruit could be sold to Pierre's General Store, then bought back after the "Qi's Crop" quest ended.
Crops
Spring Blue Jazz • Carrot • Cauliflower • Coffee Bean • Garlic • Green Bean • Kale • Parsnip • Potato • Rhubarb • Strawberry • Tulip • Unmilled Rice
Summer Blueberry • Coffee Bean • Corn • Hops • Hot Pepper • Melon • Poppy • Radish • Red Cabbage • Starfruit • Summer Spangle • Summer Squash • Sunflower • Tomato • Wheat
Fall Amaranth • Artichoke • Beet • Bok Choy • Broccoli • Corn • Cranberries • Eggplant • Fairy Rose • Grape • Pumpkin • Sunflower • Wheat • Yam
Winter Powdermelon
Special Ancient Fruit • Cactus Fruit • Pineapple • Qi Fruit • Sweet Gem Berry • Taro Root • Tea Leaves
Categories: FruitGiant CropsMulti-Seasonal crops