Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Qi Gem
A special currency honored by Mr. Qi.
Information
Source
Mr. Qi (Quests)
Monsters in dangerous Mines or Skull Cavern
Sell Price Cannot be sold
Qi Gems are obtained by completing challenges in Mr. Qi's walnut room on Ginger Island, and used to buy rewards in the same room. They can also be received from selling Golden Walnuts and can be dropped from monsters in the "dangerous" version of the Mines and during the Skull Cavern Invasion quest. Stick Bugs in the Dangerous Mines are guaranteed to drop a Qi Gem when slain, with a 50% chance of dropping an extra one. The amount of Qi Gems that a player has is displayed directly underneath the Player's name in the skills tab.
Contents
1 Tips
2 Rewards Shop
3 Bugs
4 History
Tips
Two easy ways to convert Qi Gems into gold are:
Buying Hoppers and deconstructing them using deconstructors into radioactive bars which sell for 3,000g each (4,500g with the Blacksmith profession). This method is more profitable, but takes more time and requires deconstructors. Using this method, each Qi Gem is worth 300g (450g with the Blacksmith profession).
Buying Qi Seasoning which sell for 200g each. Using this method, each Qi Gem is worth 200g.
Rewards Shop
Main article: Qi's Walnut Room#Stock
Image Name Description Price
Junimo Chest Through the power of forest magic, every Junimo Chest links to the same stash.
The first time it's purchased, you must get two for 30.
You must then close the shop interface and re-open it in order to purchase more of them one at a time.
This can be done immediately after initial purchase, or at any time.
15
Horse Flute Playing this flute will summon your horse. Only works outdoors. 50
Pierre's Missing Stocklist Pierre might be interested in this. 50
Hopper Items placed inside will automatically be loaded into the machine in front of it. 10
Enricher (4) Place on a sprinkler and load with fertilizer to automatically apply it when planting seeds nearby. 20
Pressure Nozzle (4) Place on a sprinkler to increase its watering range. 20
Deconstructor Destroys crafted items, but salvages their most valuable material. 20
Key To The Town Allows access to all buildings in town, at any time of day. 20
Galaxy Soul Forge 3 of these into a Galaxy weapon to unleash its final form. 40
Mushroom Tree Seed Place this on your farm to plant a mushroom tree. 5
Magic Bait (20) Allows you to catch fish from any season, time, or weather, from whichever type of water you cast into. 5
Qi Seasoning (10) Just a dash will elevate any dish to extraordinary heights. Automatically applied when cooking. 10
Mr. Qi's Hat A replica of Mr. Qi's iconic hat. 5
Aquatic Sanctuary Can be placed inside your house. 20
Heavy Tapper Recipe A recipe to make Heavy Tapper 20
Hyper Speed-Gro Recipe A recipe to make Hyper Speed-Gro 30
Deluxe Fertilizer Recipe A recipe to make Deluxe Fertilizer 20
Hopper Recipe A recipe to make Hopper 50
Magic Bait Recipe A recipe to make Magic Bait 20
Mini-Shipping Bin Items placed in it will be included in the nightly shipment. 60
Exotic Double Bed Can be placed inside your house. 50
Blue Grass Starter Recipe A recipe to make Blue Grass Starter 40
Fireworks (Red) An old tradition for celebrations and festivities. Handle with care! 1
Fireworks (Purple) An old tradition for celebrations and festivities. Handle with care! 1
Fireworks (Green) An old tradition for celebrations and festivities. Handle with care! 1
Qi Gem (2) A special currency honored by Mr. Qi.
Becomes available once Ginger Island is fully upgraded and the player has extra golden walnuts 1
Golden Egg A very rare and special egg with a solid gold shell.
Becomes available once perfection is achieved 100
Bugs
Because the on-screen gem count display contains only 3 digits, having 1000 or more Qi Gems causes the display to show only the last 3 digits.
History
1.5: Introduced.
1.6: Added Blue Grass Starter (recipe) and Fireworks (Red, Purple, and Green).
Category: Special items