Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Quality Bobber
Boosts the quality of fish that you catch.
Information
Source Crafting
Sell Price 300g
Crafting
Recipe Source "Juicy Bugs Wanted!" Special Order
Ingredients
Copper Bar (1)
Sap (20)
Solar Essence (5)
The Quality Bobber is a tackle that increases the quality of fish caught by one level (e.g., silver → gold). It can be crafted from a recipe received from Willy in the cutscene that follows the completion of the "Juicy Bugs Wanted!" Special Order. One Quality Bobber is received after solving the puzzle in Journal Scrap #4 on Ginger Island.
Using two Quality Bobbers on an Advanced Iridium Rod increases the quality of fish caught by two levels.
Aside from getting perfect catches, using this tackle is the only way to catch iridium quality fish. It is one of two fishing tackle that cannot be bought from Willy's Fish Shop, along with the Curiosity Lure.
Only the Iridium Rod or the Advanced Iridium Rod can equip tackle. The Iridium Rod can only attach one tackle at a time, while the Advanced Iridium Rod can attach two. To attach tackle, left-click on the tackle, then right-click on the rod. To remove tackle, first right-click to remove any bait, then right-click to remove the tackle. For an Advanced Iridium Rod, the left tackle will be the first one removed.
Tackle does not stack in inventory or chests; each tackle takes up one inventory slot.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Quests
4 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
The Quality Bobber is not used in any bundles.
Quests
The Quality Bobber is not used in any quests.
History
1.5: Introduced.
1.5.3: Fixed bug where the Quality Bobber wasn't applying its bonus.
1.6: Increases the quality of fish caught by two levels when two Quality Bobbers are equipped at once.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Categories: Fishing TackleCraftable items