Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Rabbit's Foot
Some say it's lucky.
Information
Source
Rabbit
Traveling Cart
Serpent drop (0.8%)
Cat
Sell Prices
Base Rancher (+20%)
565g
706g
847g
1,130g
678g
847g
1,016g
1,356g
The Rabbit's Foot is an animal product obtained from a Rabbit with sufficient friendship, mood, and daily luck. It can also occasionally be purchased from the Traveling Cart for 1,695–2,825g or dropped by Serpents in the Skull Cavern (0.8% chance). One may be purchased from Jas in her shop at the Desert Festival for 100 Calico Eggs. It can also be gifted by a pet cat with max friendship.
Despite the description, luck buffs do not influence the chances of getting a rabbit's foot, nor does carrying a rabbit's foot increase the player's luck.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Recipes
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 Other Uses
7 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Hate  Penny
Bundles
Rabbit's Foot is used in the Enchanter's Bundle on the Bulletin Board.
Recipes
Rabbit's Foot is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Rabbit's Foot is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create a Shirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a yellow dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Rabbit's Foot is not used in any quests.
Other Uses
One Rabbit's Foot is used when solving the puzzle depicted in Secret Note #20.
Having a Rabbit's Foot in inventory prevents a negative outcome in the Group 10-Heart Event.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Increased value from 450g to 565g.
1.3.27: Required to solve secret note #20. Can be used in group 10-heart event.
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.6: Can now be gifted by a pet cat with max friendship. Now obtainable during Desert Festival.
Animals and Produce
Coop Chicken (Egg • Large Egg • Brown Egg • Large Brown Egg) • Dinosaur (Dinosaur Egg) • Duck (Duck Egg • Duck Feather) • Golden Chicken (Golden Egg) • Rabbit (Wool • Rabbit's Foot) • Void Chicken (Void Egg)
Barn Cow (Milk • Large Milk) • Goat (Goat Milk • Large Goat Milk) • Sheep (Wool) • Ostrich (Ostrich Egg) • Pig (Truffle)
Fish Pond Fish (Roe)
Slime Hutch Slimes (Slime • Slime Ball • Slime Egg)
Other Cat • Dog • Horse • Turtle
Category: Animal Products