Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Radioactive Bar
Known by the Zuzu City Safety Commission to cause irreversible bodily harm.
Information
Source Furnace
Sell Prices
Base Blacksmith (+50%)
3,000g
4,500g
Crafting
Equipment
Furnace
Processing Time
9h 20m
Ingredients
Radioactive Ore (5)
Coal (1)
A Radioactive Bar is crafted by smelting 5 Radioactive Ore and 1 Coal in a Furnace.
A Radioactive Bar can be shipped or sold to Clint at the Blacksmith Shop for 3,000g (4,500g with the Blacksmith profession).
10 Radioactive Bars can be traded to the Island Trader for one Galaxy Soul on the last day of a season after killing at least 50 dangerous monsters.
Contents
1 Crafting
2 Gifting
3 Tailoring
4 Quests
5 Trivia
6 History
Crafting
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Heavy Tapper Place on a maple, oak, or pine tree and wait for the reservoir to fill with product! Works twice as fast as a normal tapper.
Radioactive Bar (1)
Hardwood (30)
Qi's Walnut Room for 20
Hopper Items placed inside will automatically be loaded into the machine in front of it.
Radioactive Bar (1)
Hardwood (10)
Iridium Bar (1)
Qi's Walnut Room for 50
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Maru
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Tailoring
Radioactive Bar is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with Cloth in the feed to create Radioactive Goggles. It is a lime dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed. It can be placed in the green dye pot at Emily's and Haley's house for use in dyeing.
Quests
Radioactive Bar is not used in any quests.
Trivia
The description is most likely a reference to the often-parodied California Proposition 65 warning: Known to the state of California to cause cancer, birth defects, or other reproductive harm.
History
1.5: Introduced.
1.5.5: Fixed bug where Blacksmith profession would not apply to Radioactive Bars.
Resources
Basic Battery Pack • Bone Fragment • Cinder Shard • Clay • Coal • Fiber • Hardwood • Moss • Stone • Wood
Ore Copper Ore • Iron Ore • Gold Ore • Iridium Ore • Radioactive Ore
Bars Copper Bar • Iron Bar • Gold Bar • Iridium Bar • Radioactive Bar • Refined Quartz
Category: Resources