Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Rainbow Shell
It's a very beautiful shell.
Information
Source Foraging • Rainbow Trout Fish Pond • Turtle
Location The Beach • Beach Farm • Dangerous Mines
Season
 All (Beach Farm • Dangerous Mines)
 Summer (Beach)
Energy Inedible
Sell Price
300g
375g
450g
600g
The Rainbow Shell is found via foraging at The Beach in the Summer. It may also spawn on the Beach Farm during any season or in The Mines after activating the Shrine of Challenge or during the Danger In The Deep quest. It may also be sent in the mail as a gift from Demetrius or received as a gift from Jas, Vincent or Leo at the Feast of the Winter Star. A Rainbow Trout Fish Pond has a 2% chance to produce 1 Rainbow Shell daily when the population of the pond reaches 9. It can also be gifted by a pet turtle with max friendship. It may also randomly appear at the Traveling Cart for 900–1,500g.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Recipes
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 Notes
7 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Neutral  Elliott
Hate  Harvey
Bundles
Rainbow Shell is not used in any Bundles.
Recipes
Rainbow Shell is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Rainbow Shell is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the dyeable Bikini Top.
Using a Rainbow Shell with the Sewing Machine to dye clothing will open a menu where any color can be chosen using slider buttons.
Quests
1 Rainbow Shell is used in The Mysterious Qi quest.
1 Rainbow Shell may be requested by Blobfish in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 7 to 10.
Notes
An exploit to get the Rainbow Shell is to wait until Demetrius sends a gift in the mail, then reload the game until the shell is received.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in a Fish Pond quest. Can be produced by Fish Ponds.
1.5: Can now spawn on the Beach Farm during any season.
1.6: Is now liked by all villagers except Elliott and Harvey. Can now be gifted by a pet turtle with max friendship.
1.6.4: Can now be added to Fish Tanks as decoration.
Foraging
Basic Sap
Spring Common Mushroom • Daffodil • Dandelion • Leek • Morel • Salmonberry • Spring Onion • Wild Horseradish
Summer Fiddlehead Fern • Grape • Red Mushroom • Spice Berry • Sweet Pea
Fall Blackberry • Chanterelle • Common Mushroom • Hazelnut • Wild Plum
Winter Crocus • Crystal Fruit • Holly • Snow Yam • Winter Root
The Beach Clam • Cockle • Coral • Mussel • Nautilus Shell • Oyster • Rainbow Shell • Sea Urchin • Seaweed
The Mines Cave Carrot • Purple Mushroom • Red Mushroom
The Desert Cactus Fruit • Coconut
Skull Cavern Dinosaur Egg • Fiddlehead Fern
Ginger Island Ginger • Magma Cap
Category: Beach Forage