Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Rain Totem
Activate to greatly increase the chance for rain tomorrow. Consumed on use.
Information
Source Crafting
Sell Price 20g
Recipe
Recipe Source(s)
Foraging Level 9
Ingredients
Hardwood (1)
Truffle Oil (1)
Pine Tar (5)
The Rain Totem is a crafted item that sets the weather for the next day to rainy. A Rain Totem can be activated by selecting it in inventory and pressing the Check button ( on PC, Y on Nintendo Switch).
The crafting recipe becomes available at Foraging Level 9. One to three Rain Totems may also occasionally be found in treasure rooms in the Skull Cavern.
Contents
1 Caveats
2 Gifting
3 Bundles
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 Bugs
7 History
Caveats
The weather in Pelican Town and Ginger Island can be different, and the weather will only be changed in the region where the Rain Totem is activated.
A Rain Totem will not force the weather to be rainy on festival days or on the 1st day of a season.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Rain Totem is not used in any bundles.
Tailoring
A Rain Totem can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Totem Mask. It can be used in dyeing, serving as an orange dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
The Rain Totem is not used in any quests.
Bugs
If a Rain Totem is used during Winter on the day before a snowy day, it will cause it to rain and snow simultaneously the following day.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.6: Fixed a bug where using a Rain Totem on a stormy day would turn the next day's weather to stormy instead of rainy; storms could be chained in this way to obtain large numbers of Battery Packs.
Totems
Warp Totems Warp Totem: Beach • Warp Totem: Desert • Warp Totem: Farm • Warp Totem: Island • Warp Totem: Mountains
Permanent Teleporters Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Island Obelisk • Return Scepter • Water Obelisk
Other Totems Mini-Obelisk • Rain Totem • Treasure Totem
Category: Craftable items