Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Red Mushroom
A spotted mushroom sometimes found in caves.
Information
Source Foraging • The Farm Cave • Mushroom Tree • Mushroom Log
Location Secret Woods • The Mines • Dangerous Mines • Forest Farm • Ginger Island mushroom cave
Season
 Summer (Secret Woods)
 Fall (Secret Woods • Forest Farm)
 All (other)
XP
Foraging: 7 Foraging XP
The Farm Cave: 5 Foraging XP
Mushroom Trees: 0
Energy / Health
−50
0
−70
0
−90
0
−130
0
Sell Price
75g
93g
112g
150g
The Red Mushroom is a type of mushroom obtainable by:
Foraging in the Mines on Mushroom Floors (starting at floor 81).
Found on levels 21-69 of the Mines while the Shrine of Challenge is enabled, or the Danger in The Deep quest is active.
In the Secret Woods during Summer and (more rarely) Fall.
In the Forest Farm during Fall.
Inside of the Ginger Island mushroom cave.
Searching Garbage Cans during any season.
Collected from the mushroom bins in the Cave if the mushroom option was chosen.
By tapping a Mushroom Tree.
Collected from a Mushroom Log.
By cutting down a Mushroom Tree with the Shaving enchantment.
Purchased at the Traveling Cart for 225–1,000g.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Recipes
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 Bugs
7 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Dislike  Penny
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Red Mushroom is used in the Dye Bundle on the Bulletin Board.
Red Mushroom is one of the options for the Exotic Foraging Bundle in the Crafts Room.
Recipes
Image Name Description Ingredients Energy / Health Recipe Source(s) Sell Price
Life Elixir Restores health to full.
Red Mushroom (1)
Purple Mushroom (1)
Morel (1)
Chanterelle (1)
0
100%
Combat Level 2
250g
Tailoring
Red Mushroom is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Spotted Headscarf. It can also be used as a red dye color at the dye pots in Emily's and Haley's house, located at 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
The Red Mushroom may be randomly requested during any season at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store for a reward of 225g and 150 Friendship points.
2-3 Red Mushrooms may be requested by Catfish, Spook Fish, or Woodskip in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 3 to 5.
Bugs
While playing local co-op on the Nintendo Switch, if the player or a farmhand has had exhaustion the previous day and consumes a poisonous item that reduces their energy to zero (or below), the game will soft-lock.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests.
1.5: Can be found in the Ginger Island mushroom cave.
1.6: Can now be produced by a Mushroom Log. Mushrooms from the Farm Cave now give 5 Foraging XP each.
1.6.4: Can now be obtained from chopping down Mushroom Trees with the Shaving enchantment.
Foraging
Basic Sap
Spring Common Mushroom • Daffodil • Dandelion • Leek • Morel • Salmonberry • Spring Onion • Wild Horseradish
Summer Fiddlehead Fern • Grape • Red Mushroom • Spice Berry • Sweet Pea
Fall Blackberry • Chanterelle • Common Mushroom • Hazelnut • Wild Plum
Winter Crocus • Crystal Fruit • Holly • Snow Yam • Winter Root
The Beach Clam • Cockle • Coral • Mussel • Nautilus Shell • Oyster • Rainbow Shell • Sea Urchin • Seaweed
The Mines Cave Carrot • Purple Mushroom • Red Mushroom
The Desert Cactus Fruit • Coconut
Skull Cavern Dinosaur Egg • Fiddlehead Fern
Ginger Island Ginger • Magma Cap
Categories: Mines ForageSummer ForageFall ForageMushrooms