Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Refined Quartz
A more pure form of quartz.
Information
Source Furnace
Sell Price 50g
Crafting
Equipment
Furnace
Processing Time
1.5h
Ingredients
Quartz (1)
Coal (1)
or
Fire Quartz (1)
Coal (1)
Refined Quartz is created by smelting 1 Quartz in a furnace with 1 coal for fuel. 1 Fire Quartz can also be placed in a furnace with 1 coal to produce 3 Refined Quartz. It can also be obtained in a variety of ways.
It can be sold for 50g. Until obtaining the Crystalarium it is a lot faster and easier to obtain Refined Quartz via the Recycling Machine than from quartz itself.
Contents
1 Locations
2 Crafting
3 Buildings
4 Gifting
5 Bundles
6 Tailoring
7 Quests
8 History
Locations
Can very rarely be found in the Mines by breaking large crystals.
Can be created by smelting 1 Quartz in a furnace with 1 Coal. Smelting takes 1.5 in-game hours.
Can be created by smelting 1 Fire Quartz in a furnace with 1 Coal, which produces 3 Refined Quartz. Smelting takes 1.5 in-game hours.
Can be created by recycling a Broken CD or Broken Glasses.
Can occasionally be found in Garbage Cans after receiving the Furnace blueprints from Clint.
Can be a rare drop from Ghosts in The Mines. (Floors 51-79)
Can be dropped by Carbon Ghosts in the Skull Cavern. (10% chance)
Can be produced by Ghostfish Fish Ponds when the population reaches 9.
Crafting
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Crystal Floor (5) Place on the ground to create paths or to spruce up your floors.
Refined Quartz (1)
Krobus (500g)
Crystal Path (5) Place on the ground to create paths or to spruce up your floors.
Refined Quartz (1)
Carpenter's Shop (200g)
Farm Computer Scans the farm and displays useful information.
Refined Quartz (10)
Dwarf Gadget (1)
Battery Pack (1)
Demetrius (Special Order)
Garden Pot Grows crops from any season when indoors. Outdoors, it can only house seasonal crops.
Refined Quartz (1)
Clay (1)
Stone (10)
Evelyn cutscene after completing the Greenhouse
Lightning Rod Collects energy from lightning storms and turns it into battery packs.
Refined Quartz (1)
Bat Wing (5)
Iron Bar (1)
Foraging Level 6
Quality Sprinkler Waters the 8 adjacent tiles every morning.
Refined Quartz (1)
Gold Bar (1)
Iron Bar (1)
Farming Level 6
Sonar Bobber Shows what fish is on the line before it's caught.
Iron Bar (1)
Refined Quartz (2)
Fishing Level 6
Solar Panel Slowly generates batteries when left in the sun.
Refined Quartz (10)
Iron Bar (5)
Gold Bar (5)
Caroline (Special Order)
Buildings
Image Name Description Cost Size
Slime Hutch Raise up to 20 slimes. Fill water troughs and slimes will create slime balls. 10,000g
Stone (500)
Refined Quartz (10)
Iridium Bar (1)
7x4
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Neutral  Clint
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Hate  Sam
Bundles
5 Refined Quartz are used in the Engineer's Bundle in the Boiler Room (Remixed).
Tailoring
Refined Quartz is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the dyeable Necklace Shirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a purple dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Refined Quartz may be randomly requested during any season at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store for a reward of 150g and 150 Friendship points. Refined Quartz will never be requested until you have the Furnace blueprints.
Two, three, five, or ten Refined Quartz may be requested by several fish in Fish Pond quests.
History
1.3.27: Added ability to smelt with fire Quartz. Added Garden Pot recipe.
1.4: Sturdy Ring does not use Refined Quartz to craft anymore. Refined Quartz can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests. Can be produced by Fish Ponds.
1.5: Is now used in a remixed bundle. Now used as an ingredient in the Solar Panel and Farm Computer recipes.
1.6: Now used in Sonar Bobber recipe.
Resources
Basic Battery Pack • Bone Fragment • Cinder Shard • Clay • Coal • Fiber • Hardwood • Moss • Stone • Wood
Ore Copper Ore • Iron Ore • Gold Ore • Iridium Ore • Radioactive Ore
Bars Copper Bar • Iron Bar • Gold Bar • Iridium Bar • Radioactive Bar • Refined Quartz
Category: Resources