Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Rice Shoot
Plant these in the spring. Takes 8 days to mature. Grows faster if planted near a body of water. Harvest with the scythe.
Information
Crop:
Unmilled Rice
Growth Time: 8 days (6 when irrigated)
Season:
Spring
Sell Price: 20g
Purchase Prices
General Store: 40g
JojaMart: Not sold
Traveling Cart: 100–1,000g
Rice Shoots are a type of seed. Mature plants yield Unmilled Rice. Unmilled Rice is harvested using a Scythe.
Rice Shoots can be purchased at Pierre's General Store starting in year 2 and occasionally from the Traveling Cart. They can also be obtained in regular Fishing Treasure Chests and Golden Fishing Treasure Chests (both in Spring), Artifact Spots (in Spring), by using the Seed Maker, or as a drop from Grubs (10% chance) in the Mines or Mutant Grubs in the Skull Cavern (Prehistoric Floors) or Mutant Bug Lair. In Winter they can also drop from Haunted Skulls (21.43% chance); in Spring from Wilderness Golems (6.25% chance).
Rice Shoots planted in most farm tiles take 8 days to mature with watering each day, as with other crops. However, Rice Shoots planted within 3 tiles of a Farm Pond or natural water source (excluding Wells and Fish Ponds) in any direction are considered to be irrigated, as in a rice paddy. Paddies need not be continuous with each other or adjacent to a pond in order to count as irrigated. Irrigated Rice Shoots take only 6 days to mature and do not require watering.
Contents
1 Stages
2 Notes
3 Gifting
4 Maps
5 References
6 History
Stages
When harvested, each Rice Shoot has a 50/50 chance of giving either one or two Unmilled Rice at farming level 0, or one or three Unmilled Rice at farming level 10 or higher, plus an additional 10% chance of one or more extra rice (1.61 rice on average, or 2.11 at farming level 10+).[1]
Rice Type Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Harvest
Non-Irrigated 1 Day 2 Days 2 Days 3 Days Total: 8 Days
Irrigated 1 Day 1 Day 1 Day 3 Days Total: 6 Days
Notes
Rice Shoots are not sold at Pierre's until year 2, but they can be found in regular and golden Fishing Treasure Chests, Artifact Spots, and as drops from monsters starting in year 1.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Maps
Shown below are the areas where Rice Shoots are automatically irrigated for each farm type.
Standard Farm
Riverland Farm
Forest Farm
Hill-top Farm
Wilderness Farm
Four Corners Farm
Beach Farm
References
↑ The game randomly selects with equal odds either the minimum harvest value of 1, or the maximum harvest value (which is also 1) + 1 + Farming Level / 10. This is the base number of Unmilled Rice to spawn. It can only be an integer and decimals are ignored, so only farming levels of 10 and above make a difference and add one. After that, the game generates a random number between 0 and 1, and if it is less than 0.1, then yet another Unmilled Rice will spawn. This repeats until the random number generated is greater than or equal to 0.1, at which point the chance for an extra Unmilled Rice ends. This, on average, will give 0.11 extra Unmilled Rice on top of the initial 50/50 chance for one or two extra Unmilled Rice to be produced. Keep in mind that Luck can also double the total amount of extra Unmilled Rice spawned by the above formula.
History
1.4: Introduced.
1.6: Can now be obtained from Golden Fishing Treasure Chests.
Seeds, Starters, and Saplings
Spring Apricot Sapling • Bean Starter • Carrot Seeds • Cauliflower Seeds • Cherry Sapling • Coffee Beans • Garlic Seeds • Jazz Seeds • Kale Seeds • Parsnip Seeds • Potato Seeds • Rice Shoot • Rhubarb Seeds • Spring Seeds • Strawberry Seeds • Tulip Bulb
Summer Blueberry Seeds • Coffee Beans • Corn Seeds • Hops Starter • Melon Seeds • Orange Sapling • Peach Sapling • Pepper Seeds • Poppy Seeds • Radish Seeds • Red Cabbage Seeds • Spangle Seeds • Summer Seeds • Summer Squash Seeds • Sunflower Seeds • Starfruit Seeds • Tomato Seeds • Wheat Seeds
Fall Amaranth Seeds • Apple Sapling • Artichoke Seeds • Beet Seeds • Bok Choy Seeds • Broccoli Seeds • Corn Seeds • Cranberry Seeds • Eggplant Seeds • Fairy Seeds • Fall Seeds • Grape Starter • Pomegranate Sapling • Pumpkin Seeds • Rare Seed • Sunflower Seeds • Wheat Seeds • Yam Seeds
Winter Powdermelon Seeds • Winter Seeds
Other Acorn • Ancient Seeds • Banana Sapling • Blue Grass Starter • Cactus Seeds • Fiber Seeds • Grass Starter • Mahogany Seed • Mango Sapling • Maple Seed • Mixed Flower Seeds • Mixed Seeds • Mossy Seed • Mushroom Tree Seed • Mystic Tree Seed • Pineapple Seeds • Qi Bean • Tea Sapling • Pine Cone • Taro Tuber
Category: Spring seeds