Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Rice
A basic grain often served under vegetables.
Information
Source Mill • Pierre's • JojaMart
Energy / Health
13
5
Sell Price 100g
Crafting
Equipment
Mill
Processing Time
Ready the next morning
Ingredients
Unmilled Rice (1)
This article is about the cooking ingredient. For the harvested crop, see Unmilled Rice. For the seed, see Rice Shoot.
Rice is a cooking ingredient that can be used in a variety of recipes. It can be purchased for 200g at Pierre's General Store and for 250g at JojaMart.
Players have the ability to craft Rice from Unmilled Rice by using a Mill. Once placed in the mill, one Unmilled Rice will make one Rice. Unmilled Rice placed inside will appear as Rice in the box beside the Mill the next morning. The building can process an unlimited amount of rice per day.
Note: Rice made using the mill is profitable; it has a higher sell price than Unmilled Rice. Using Preserves Jars would be slightly more profitable per unit of Unmilled Rice if there is sufficient capacity, as the resulting pickles would sell for 110g. However, Rice can be further processed into Vinegar with a Keg, producing two Vinegar per Rice. As Vinegar sells for 100g each, this ultimately results in more profit than using Preserves Jars.
Contents
1 Recipes
1.1 Cooking
1.2 Other
2 Gifting
3 Tailoring
4 Quests
5 History
Recipes
Cooking
Image Name Description Ingredients Energy / Health Buff(s) Buff Duration Recipe Source(s) Sell Price
Maki Roll Fish and rice wrapped in seaweed. Any Fish (1)
Seaweed (1)
Rice (1)
100
45 N/A N/A
The Queen of Sauce
21 Summer, Year 1
Stardrop Saloon for 300g
220g
Rice Pudding It's creamy, sweet, and fun to eat.
Milk (1)
Sugar (1)
Rice (1)
115
51 N/A N/A
Evelyn (Mail - 7+ )
260g
Mango Sticky Rice Sweet mango and coconut transforms this rice into something very special.
Mango (1)
Coconut (1)
Rice (1)
113
50
Defense (+3)
5m 1s
Leo (Mail - 7+ )
250g
Other
Image Name Description Ingredient Equipment Time Sell Price
Vinegar An aged fermented liquid used in many cooking recipes.
Rice (1)
Keg 600 minutes (10 hours) 100g
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Tailoring
Rice is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the White Overalls.
Quests
Rice is not used in any quests.
History
1.4: Added ability to make using unmilled rice in a Mill. Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.6: Can now be processed into vinegar in a keg.
Ingredients
Ingredients Wheat Flour • Sugar • Rice • Oil • Vinegar
Category: Ingredients