Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Robin
Information
Birthday  Fall 21
Lives In The Mountain
Address 24 Mountain Road
Family
Demetrius (Husband)
Maru (Daughter)
Sebastian (Son)
Marriage No
Clinic Visit  Summer 18
Loved Gifts
Goat Cheese
Peach
Spaghetti
Woody's Secret
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Anytime
5.2 Six Hearts
5.3 Seven Hearts
6 Quotes
7 Quests
8 Portraits
9 History
“ “My parents were bewildered when I told them I wanted to be a carpenter. They were pretty old-fashioned.”
— Robin
Robin is a villager who resides at 24 Mountain Road, on The Mountain, with her husband Demetrius, daughter Maru, and son Sebastian.
Robin is the town carpenter and runs her own Carpenter's Shop, at her home, from 9am to 5pm every day except Tuesday and part of Friday (closes early).
Schedule
Robin's shop is closed on Tuesday while she has a weekly exercise class at Caroline's home. However, if you stand in her path on her way out (near the cash register at 9:40am), you can use her shop momentarily. You can also access her shop when she is returning around 8pm, by clicking the register while she is right behind you.
Robin won't leave her home on days when it's raining unless she has been hired to construct a farm building. Her shop will be closed for the days that she is on the Farm completing the construction.
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Robin may randomly spend Tuesday there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Robin will immediately go home to bed. Robin never visits the Resort on Festival days.
Shown below are Robin's schedules prioritized highest to lowest. For example, if it is raining, that schedule overrides all others below it.
Expand
Spring 16 (Bus Service Restored)
Expand
Desert Festival (As Vendor)
Expand
Green Rain (Year 1)
Expand
Summer 18
Expand
Rain
Expand
Monday (Community Center Restored)
Expand
Winter 16
Expand
Tuesday
Expand
Friday
Expand
Regular Schedule
Relationships
Robin is married to Demetrius and lives with her daughter Maru and son Sebastian. Maru is her daughter with Demetrius, and Sebastian is from an earlier relationship. It is assumed that Demetrius is Robin's second husband because there are 2 books in the bookcase of their room titled "Maximizing Your Second Marriage" and "Practical Tips For First-Time Step-Dads."
Robin attends exercise classes on Tuesday with Jodi, Caroline, Emily and Marnie.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Robin up to two gifts per week (plus one on her birthday), which will raise or lower her friendship with you. Gifts on her birthday ( 21 Fall) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved or liked gifts, Robin responds
“ “A birthday gift? That's very kind of you! I love it.”
“ “You remembered my birthday! Thank you. This is great.”
For neutral gifts, Robin responds
“ “Oh, a birthday gift! Thank you.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Robin responds
“ “Oh... It's for my birthday? ... Thanks.”
Note that Robin is unavailable for gifting during construction of most farm buildings. She is available during Farmhouse, Coop, and Barn upgrades, but not during Shed upgrades.
Love
“ “This is for me? Wow, I absolutely love it!!”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Wait a sec... you're giving me this? What a special treat! Thank you.”
Woody's Secret
“ “What's this... 'Woody's Secret'? ... Um, what kind of book is this, (Name)?
Oh, it's about woodcutting! Hahaha... Oh yeah, I'm going to love this. Thanks!”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Goat Cheese Soft cheese made from goat's milk. Cheese Press
Peach It's almost fuzzy to the touch. Peach Tree
Spaghetti An old favorite. Cooking, The Stardrop Saloon
Wheat Flour (1)
Tomato (1)
Woody's Secret Felled trees have a 5% chance to yield double the wood. Trees
Like
“ “Thanks! This is really nice!”
Woodcutter's Weekly
“ “Ah, 'Woodcutter's Weekly'... I was hoping to get my hands on the newest issue! They've got all the latest techniques in here!
From one woodcutter to another... Thank you.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes
All Fruit (except Peach)
All Milk
Hardwood A special kind of wood with superior strength and beauty. Foraging
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - Mines
Woodcutter's Weekly Read this to gain some foraging experience. Bookseller
Neutral
“ “Thank you. This might come in handy.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals (except Woodcutter's Weekly & Woody's Secret)
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Dislike
“ “Um... why?”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Hardwood)
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Hate
“ “What the...? This is terrible!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Like
It Howls In The Rain
Mysterium
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Wumbus
Dislike
N/A
Love
Salted Peanuts
Stardrop Sorbet
Dislike
Black Licorice
Cotton Candy
Jawbreaker
Joja Cola
JojaCorn
Rock Candy
Sour Slimes
Like
Everything else
Heart Events
Anytime
At any friendship level greater than zero friendship points, you may receive a gift in the mail from Robin. The chance of receiving a gift in the mail increases as your friendship with Robin increases.
Expand
Details 
Six Hearts
Enter Robin's house while she is home.
Expand
Details 
Seven Hearts
After reaching 7 hearts with Robin she will send you a recipe in the mail.
Expand
Details 
Quotes
Expand
Regular 
Expand
Events 

Quests
Robin's lost axe
"Robin's Lost Axe": On the 11th of Spring, Robin will send a letter explaining that she lost her favorite axe, and offers a reward of 250g to anyone who finds and returns it to her. You also gain 1 Friendship heart as a reward.
"Robin's Request": On the 21st of Winter, Robin will send a letter requesting that you bring her 10 pieces of Hardwood. The reward is 500g and 1 Friendship heart.
Robin may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
Robin may randomly request Wood or Stone at "Help Wanted" board. The reward is 8x the number of items requested.
"Robin's Project": On the Special Orders board in front of the Mayor's Manor, Robin may randomly request that the player collect 80 Hardwood. The reward is 2,000g, 250 Friendship points, and the Deluxe Red Double Bed for sale at the Carpenter's Shop.
"Robin's Resource Rush": On the Special Orders board in front of the Mayor's Manor, Robin may randomly request that the player collect 1000 Wood or 1000 Stone. The reward is 2,500g and the Stone Chest recipe.
Portraits
History
1.5: Added 5 new portraits, 4 beach portraits and one quest portrait.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Added winter portraits and more beach portraits. Six heart event now skippable.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs