Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Ruby
A precious stone that is sought after for its rich color and beautiful luster.
Information
Source Mining • Dwarvish Sentry • Fishing Treasure Chests • Panning
Sell Price 250g
Gemologist Profession (+30% Sell Price) 325g
Ruby is a Mineral that can be obtained from Ruby Nodes and Gem Nodes in the Mines (Floors 80+), Skull Cavern, Quarry, and Volcano Dungeon. After reaching the bottom of the Mines, Ruby Nodes can be found on any floor. A Ruby can also be obtained from Dwarvish Sentries (10% chance), in Fishing Treasure Chests, by panning, or as a gift at the Feast of the Winter Star. It can be found in crates and barrels in the Mines (Floors 80+), Skull Cavern, and Volcano Dungeon. It may also occasionally be found in a Garbage Can after the player has reached the bottom of the Mines.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Forging
4 Recipes
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 Trading
8 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Clint •  Dwarf •  Emily
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Demetrius •  Elliott •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leo •  Lewis •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Dislike  Leah •  Linus •  Pierre
Bundles
Ruby is one of the options for the Treasure Hunter's Bundle in the Boiler Room (Remixed).
Forging
Ruby can be used at the Forge to increase the damage of a melee weapon.
Recipes
Ruby is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Ruby is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with Cloth in the feed to create a Shirt. It is a red dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed. It can also be placed in the red dye pot at Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane, for use in dyeing.
Quests
The Ruby may be randomly requested during any season at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store for a reward of 750g and 150 Friendship points. The Ruby will never be requested until the player has reached floors 80+ of The Mines.
Ruby will be requested by Emily as part of the "Rock Rejuvenation" quest at the Special Orders board outside Mayor Lewis' house.
May be used in the Gem Birds puzzle on Ginger Island.
Trading
One Ruby can be traded to the Desert Trader for 1 Spicy Eel.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be traded to the Desert Trader.
1.5: Can be requested in a Special Order quest. Can now be used in Forging. Also used in Gem Birds puzzle. Is now an option in the Treasure Hunter's Bundle. Can now be obtained from the Volcano Dungeon and Dwarvish Sentries.
Minerals
Foraged Minerals Earth Crystal • Fire Quartz • Frozen Tear • Quartz
Gems Amethyst • Aquamarine • Diamond • Emerald • Jade • Prismatic Shard • Ruby • Topaz
Geode Minerals Aerinite • Alamite • Baryte • Basalt • Bixite • Calcite • Celestine • Dolomite • Esperite • Fairy Stone • Fire Opal • Fluorapatite • Geminite • Ghost Crystal • Granite • Helvite • Hematite • Jagoite • Jamborite • Jasper • Kyanite • Lemon Stone • Limestone • Lunarite • Malachite • Marble • Mudstone • Nekoite • Neptunite • Obsidian • Ocean Stone • Opal • Orpiment • Petrified Slime • Pyrite • Sandstone • Slate • Soapstone • Star Shards • Thunder Egg • Tigerseye
Geodes Geode • Frozen Geode • Magma Geode • Omni Geode
Category: Gems