Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Salmonberry
A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest.
Information
Source Foraging
Location Bushes throughout Stardew Valley • the Farm Cave
Season
15-18 Spring (bushes)
 All (the Farm Cave)
Energy / Health
25
11
35
15
45
20
65
29
Sell Prices
Base Bear's Knowledge (×3)
5g
6g
7g
10g
15g
18g
21g
30g
Tiller Sell Prices
Tiller (+10%) + (×3.3)
5g
11g
16g
33g
Artisan Sell Prices
Base Artisan (+40%)
15g
18g
22g
30g
60g
62g
21g
25g
30g
42g
84g
86g
The Salmonberry is a foraged fruit found on bushes in Stardew Valley during Salmonberry Season (Spring 15-18). Bushes can be shaken to knock berries loose by using the Check action. It won't be found in the wild outside those days. It can be found at any time (randomly) in the Farm Cave if the fruit bat option is chosen.
Salmonberry has the lowest sell value of any foraged item, making it one of the few fruits that is worth more as a Jelly than a Wine. With Bear's Knowledge, processing Salmonberries into Wine may even result in a loss of money.
Contents
1 Details
2 Gifting
2.1 Gifting Salmonberry Wine
2.2 Gifting Salmonberry Jelly
3 Bundles
4 Recipes
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 Tips
8 History
Details
The number of berries obtained from each salmonberry bush increases as the player's Foraging Skill increases. At Level 4, two berries will be harvested from each bush instead of one. At Level 8, three berries will be harvested from each bush. If Foraging Skill is temporarily increased to 12 or more with a Foraging Buff (by consuming food), then 4 berries will be harvested from each bush.
Salmonberries harvested from bushes grant 1 Foraging XP per berry harvested.
With the Botanist profession all Salmonberries, from all sources, will be iridium quality. Otherwise, berries shaken from bushes will always be regular quality, regardless of Foraging skill. Therefore, the only source of silver and gold quality salmonberries is the Farm Cave.
Even though Salmonberries are a foraged fruit, they benefit from the +10% Tiller profession price bonus, but the bonus is too small to have an effect unless the player also has the Botanist profession (iridium quality) or Bear's Knowledge. The only exception is Salmonberries found in the Farm Cave, which do not receive the Tiller bonus unless they are combined in a stack with bush Salmonberries (see the fruit page for details.)
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Demetrius •  Jodi •  Kent •  Leah •  Linus •  Pam •  Robin •  Sandy •  Shane
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Clint •  Dwarf •  Emily •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Jas •  Krobus •  Leo •  Lewis •  Marnie •  Maru •  Penny •  Pierre •  Sam •  Sebastian •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Hate  Caroline •  Elliott •  Evelyn •  Harvey
Gifting Salmonberry Wine
Salmonberry Wine is the cheapest wine available for gifting.
Villager Reactions
Love  Harvey •  Leah
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Shane •  Willy •  Wizard
Hate  Jas •  Leo •  Penny •  Sebastian •  Vincent
Gifting Salmonberry Jelly
Salmonberry Jelly is the cheapest jelly available for gifting.
Villager Reactions
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Hate  Sebastian

Bundles
Fifty Salmonberries are an option in the Forager's Bundle on the Bulletin Board (Remixed).
Ten Salmonberries are an option in the Children's Bundle on the Bulletin Board (Remixed).
Salmonberries can be put into a Keg to make Salmonberry Wine, which can be used in the Enchanter's Bundle on the Bulletin Board, the cheapest wine option.
Salmonberry wine can be aged in a Cask to silver quality for the The Missing Bundle in the abandoned JojaMart.
Recipes
Salmonberry is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Salmonberry is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create a Shirt. It can also be used as a red dye in the dye pots, located in Haley's and Emily's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Salmonberry is not used in any quests.
Tips
While the game suggests gathering Salmonberries to get extra cash, its low sell value also makes it a cheap source of energy and health, and an inexpensive gift to those who like it. Salmonberries can be especially valuable in year 1, when energy resources and gift options are limited. Raising Foraging to level 4 in the first two weeks of the game may yield a total harvest of over 400 salmonberries during harvest time (over 10,000 supplemental energy).
Each bush has a 20% chance to spawn salmonberries on the overnight update, plus a small random bonus chance.
History
1.3.27: Added Bear's Knowledge.
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Fixed how Tiller bonus applies when foraged and non-foraged fruit are combined in one stack.
1.5: Is now an option in the Children's Bundle and Forager's Bundle.
1.6: Now grant 1 Foraging XP per berry harvested.
1.6.3: Fixed bug where reloading a save would result in more bushes having berries during Salmonberry season.
Foraging
Basic Sap
Spring Common Mushroom • Daffodil • Dandelion • Leek • Morel • Salmonberry • Spring Onion • Wild Horseradish
Summer Fiddlehead Fern • Grape • Red Mushroom • Spice Berry • Sweet Pea
Fall Blackberry • Chanterelle • Common Mushroom • Hazelnut • Wild Plum
Winter Crocus • Crystal Fruit • Holly • Snow Yam • Winter Root
The Beach Clam • Cockle • Coral • Mussel • Nautilus Shell • Oyster • Rainbow Shell • Sea Urchin • Seaweed
The Mines Cave Carrot • Purple Mushroom • Red Mushroom
The Desert Cactus Fruit • Coconut
Skull Cavern Dinosaur Egg • Fiddlehead Fern
Ginger Island Ginger • Magma Cap
Category: Spring Forage