Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Sam
Information
Birthday  Summer 17
Lives In Pelican Town
Address 1 Willow Lane
Family
Kent (Father)
Jodi (Mother)
Vincent (Brother)
Marriage Yes
Clinic Visit  Fall 11
Loved Gifts
Cactus Fruit
Maple Bar
Pizza
Tigerseye
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Two Hearts
5.2 Three Hearts
5.3 Four Hearts
5.4 Six Hearts
5.5 Eight Hearts
5.6 Ten Hearts
5.7 Group Ten-Heart Event
5.8 Fourteen Hearts
6 Marriage
7 Quotes
8 Questions
9 Quests
10 Portraits
11 Timeline
12 Trivia
13 History
“ “Sam is an outgoing, friendly guy who is brimming with youthful energy. He plays guitar and drums, and wants to start a band with Sebastian as soon as he has enough songs together. However, he does have a habit of starting ambitious projects and not finishing them. Sam is a little stressed about the impending return of his father, who has been away for years due to his line of work.”
— Dev Update #12
Sam is a villager who lives in Pelican Town. He's one of the twelve characters available to marry. He lives in the southern part of town, just north of the river at 1 Willow Lane.
Sam is an outgoing and energetic young man with a passion for music. He works part-time at JojaMart. In his free time, he plays guitar. Despite his description in Dev Update 12, he does not actually ever play drums. He also skateboards and can be found playing videogames.
Schedule
Sam can often be found practicing his guitar in his bedroom, sometimes with Sebastian playing an electric piano. He's also frequently seen outside of his house playing a handheld video game, or attempting skateboard tricks. On weekends he can be found playing pool at the Stardrop Saloon.
He works part-time on Monday and Wednesday at JojaMart (if it is in business), or at the Museum in the Artifacts and Minerals display (if the Community Center has been restored). He frequents the Stardrop Saloon during spring, goes to the Beach during summer, and visits the woods west of town in the fall.
When it's raining he'll often stay home all day, or visit the Stardrop Saloon for a few hours.
On the 11th of Fall, he has an appointment at the clinic.
His schedule can deviate if there are specific conditions like season, weather or certain days of the week.
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Sam may randomly spend the day there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Sam will immediately go home to bed. Sam never visits the Resort on Festival days or his checkup day at Harvey's Clinic.
Below are his schedule deviations prioritized highest to lowest (for example when it rains that schedule will override all others below it)
 Spring
 Summer
 Fall
 Winter
 Marriage
Relationships
Sam lives with his mother Jodi and younger brother Vincent. His mother spoils both of them, and claims that neither have ever had to do any chores. He is close to Vincent, and feels responsible for him during his dad's absence. In Spring, Year 2, Sam's father Kent returns and resides in the house with the rest of the family. After marriage, Sam will visit his family regularly to check up on them.
Sebastian and Abigail are his bandmates and closest friends, and they often spend time together. When they are hanging out at The Stardrop Saloon, Sebastian is always seen beating Sam at pool, while Abigail watches from the couch. He is also friends with Penny, and will dance with her at the Flower Dance if neither of them is dancing with the player.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Sam up to two gifts per week (plus one on his birthday), which will raise or lower his friendship with you. Gifts on his birthday ( 17 Summer) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved, liked, or neutral gifts, Sam responds
“ “Hey, hey, hey! You remembered! Now that's what I'm talking about!”
For disliked or hated gifts, Sam responds
“ “Hey, hey, hey! You rememb--
...*sniff*...*sniff*... what's that gnarly smell...?
...Oh.”
Love
“ “Aw, yea! This is my absolute favorite!”
Pizza
“ “Aw yeah... Pizza time!”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Whoaa... Hold on... this is for me? I never expected this! Thank you!”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Cactus Fruit The sweet fruit of the prickly pear cactus. Foraging - The Desert
Maple Bar It's a sweet doughnut topped with a rich maple glaze. Cooking
Maple Syrup (1)
Sugar (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Pizza It's popular for all the right reasons. Cooking, The Stardrop Saloon
Wheat Flour (1)
Tomato (1)
Cheese (1)
Tigerseye A stripe of shimmering gold gives this gem a warm luster. Magma Geode, Omni Geode
Like
“ “Thanks! I really like this.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes (except Duck Mayonnaise, Mayonnaise, Pickles, & Vegetables)
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
Joja Cola The flagship product of Joja corporation. Fishing, JojaMart, Saloon Vending Machine, Garbage Can, Soda Machine
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Neutral
“ “You got that for me? Thanks!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals
All Fruit (except Cactus Fruit, Fruit Tree Fruit, & Salmonberry)
All Milk
Dislike
“ “Hmm.. this is... interesting.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Bone Fragment, Cinder Shard, Coal, Copper Bar, Gold Bar, Gold Ore, Iridium Bar, Iridium Ore, Iron Bar, Refined Quartz, & Tigerseye)
All Vegetables (except Hops, Tea Leaves, & Wheat)
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - The Mines
Salmonberry A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest. Foraging - Spring
Seaweed It can be used in cooking. Fishing
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
Hate
“ “You really don't get it, huh?”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Hates (except Joja Cola & Seaweed)
Bone Fragment A small piece of bone. Mining
Cinder Shard You can feel a warm glow from within this stone. Mining
Coal A combustible rock that is useful for crafting and smelting. Mining
Copper Bar A bar of pure copper. Furnace
Coal (1)
Copper Ore (5)
Duck Mayonnaise It's a rich, yellow mayonnaise. Mayonnaise Machine
Duck Egg (1)
Gold Bar A bar of pure gold. Furnace
Coal (1)
Gold Ore (5)
Gold Ore A precious ore that can be smelted into bars. Mining
Iridium Bar A bar of pure iridium. Furnace
Coal (1)
Iridium Ore (5)
Iridium Ore An exotic ore with many curious properties. Can be smelted into bars. Mining
Iron Bar A bar of pure iron. Furnace
Coal (1)
Iron Ore (5)
Mayonnaise It looks spreadable. Mayonnaise Machine
Egg (1)
Pickles A jar of your home-made pickles. Preserves Jar Any Vegetable or Ginger (1)
Refined Quartz A more pure form of quartz. Furnace
Coal (1)
Quartz (1)
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
Wumbus
Like
It Howls In The Rain
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Mysterium
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
Dislike
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Love
Personal Pizza
Stardrop Sorbet
Dislike
Apple Slices
Black Licorice
Cappuccino Mousse Cake
Hummus Snack Pack
Jasmine Tea
JojaCorn
Kale Smoothie
Panzanella Salad
Truffle Popcorn
Like
Everything else
Heart Events
Two Hearts
Enter Sam's house when he's there.
Details 
Three Hearts
In any season except winter, enter the beach on a sunny day between 7am and 3pm. This event only happens in Year 1.
Details 
Four Hearts
Enter Sam's house when he's there.
Details 
Six Hearts
On any day when it's not raining, enter the town between noon and 4pm.
Details 
Eight Hearts
Sam shows up at your doorstep between 6am and 8am. Only triggers if you've seen his two-heart event.
Details 
Ten Hearts
After receiving a letter from Sam, enter the town on a sunny day between 8pm and midnight.
Details 
Group Ten-Heart Event
If the player is unmarried and has given a bouquet to all available bachelors, raised friendship with each bachelor to 10 hearts, and seen each bachelor's 10-heart event, then entering The Stardrop Saloon will trigger a cutscene. If Alex is the final bachelor you share a Ten-Heart Event with, the Group Ten-Heart Event will be unavoidable as it is triggered immediately afterwards.
Details 
This event will trigger only one time per save file. This event will not trigger if you are married or have given a Wilted Bouquet or Mermaid's Pendant to one of the marriage candidates.
Fourteen Hearts
Part 1: Enter an upgraded farmhouse (needs to be upgraded at least twice) between 6:10am and 5:00pm, when Sam is inside.
Part 2: Three days later, enter the farmhouse between 6:10am and 5pm, when Sam is inside.
Part 3: Three days later, enter the farmhouse between 6:10am and 5pm, when Sam is inside.
Part 4: Four days later, enter the farmhouse between 6:10am and 5pm, when Sam is inside.
Details 
Marriage
Main article: Marriage
Once married, Sam will move into the farmhouse. Like other marriage candidates, he will add his own room to the right of the bedroom. He'll also set up a half-pipe behind the farmhouse where he'll sometimes go to practice his skateboarding tricks.
On rainy days, Sam may offer you a gift that he found "rolling around in the back of a drawer": Cactus Fruit, Coconut, Earth Crystal, or Geode. On rainy nights, he may offer you Pizza. On days when Sam stays inside the farmhouse all day, he may offer you instant Pancakes, explaining that he never learned to cook.
Sam's room
Sam's half pipe
Quotes
Regular 
Events 


After Marriage 
Questions
Wednesday
“ “I'm trying to come up with a new song for my band, but I'm blanking... Hey.. What do you think my new song should be about?”
Farming, mining and chopping wood. (+30 friendship.)
Sam responds: "Hey, you know what? That sounds perfect. Thanks!"
A city in the sea. (+30 friendship.)
Sam responds: "Hey, you know what? That sounds perfect. Thanks!"
Trains. (+30 friendship.)
Sam responds: "Hey, you know what? That sounds perfect. Thanks!"
Choose anything, it'll be terrible anyway. (-50 friendship.)
Sam responds: "Hey man... what the heck is your problem? Sorry I asked."
Quests
Sam may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
Portraits
Timeline
Sam's look evolved over the years the game was in development. Here's a timeline showing how ConcernedApe's art and Sam's style changed over the years before the game was launched.
Trivia
Sam is allergic to pollen, which he mentions during the Egg Festival. He also mentions that his "nose is really happy" during summer due to the typically lower pollen count.
"Sam" is short for "Samson", which he reveals to the player once they have a good relationship with him. He also states that he doesn't want the player to tell anyone.
On one of Sam's portraits, his undershirt is yellow, but in his sprite, it is red.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Added skateboarding area behind farmhouse if married.
1.3.27: Added group 10-heart event.
1.4: Added 14 heart event.
1.5: Added beach portraits.
1.6: Added winter portraits, more beach portraits. Added Sam Portrait furniture item. Sam's Old Guitar can now be sold by Sam at the Desert Festival.
1.6.9: Added work portraits.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: Marriage candidates