Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Sandy
Information
Birthday  Fall 15
Lives In The Desert
Address Oasis
Marriage No
Loved Gifts
Crocus
Daffodil
Mango Sticky Rice
Sweet Pea
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Anytime
5.2 Seven Hearts
6 Quotes
7 Quests
8 Portraits
9 Trivia
10 References
11 History
“ “My name's not really Sandy, you know. It's just good for business.”
— Sandy
Sandy is a villager who lives in the Calico Desert where she runs the store, the Oasis. Players won't meet her until they've repaired the bus by completing the vault bundle or purchasing "Bus" for 40,000g through the Joja Community Development Form.
Schedule
Sandy does not leave the Oasis, and can be found there when the store is open, from 9am to 11:50pm except on her birthday, Fall 15. On Fall 15, the Oasis is open in the morning but at 1pm Sandy leaves to walk around the desert with Emily.
Sandy never visits the Beach Resort on Ginger Island.
Expand
Spring 15, 16, & 17 (Bus Repaired)
Expand
Fall 15 (Bus Repaired)
Expand
Regular Schedule
Relationships
Sandy allows Mr. Qi to operate his casino behind her shop. It's clear they're not close, but she accepts his money and "looks the other way" with whatever he's doing back there. She mentions that she's friends with Emily; during the first meeting with the player she mentions that Emily wrote to her about "the new farmer" in town. She also mentions that "my friend runs a shop in the desert", referring to the Desert Trader.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Sandy up to two gifts per week (plus one on her birthday), which will raise or lower her friendship with you. Gifts on her birthday ( 15 Fall) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved or liked gifts, Sandy responds
“ “A birthday gift? That's very kind of you! I love it.”
“ “You remembered my birthday! Thank you. This is great.”
For neutral gifts, Sandy responds
“ “Oh, a birthday gift! Thank you.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Sandy responds
“ “Oh... It's for my birthday? ... Thanks.”
Love
“ “Ooo! I absolutely love getting gifts from the valley. I'm so happy!~”
Crocus
“ “Ahh... even in winter, Stardew Valley has beautiful flowers.”
Daffodil
“ “Oh, wow! Nothing says 'spring' like a Stardew Valley daffodil!”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Wow, that's so rare... I can't believe you're giving this to me! Thanks, honey!”
Sweet Pea
“ “*sniff*... Mmm... sweet peas have the most wonderful smell.”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Crocus A flower that can bloom in the winter. Foraging - Winter
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Mango Sticky Rice Sweet mango and coconut transforms this rice into something very special. Cooking
Mango (1)
Coconut (1)
Rice (1)
Sweet Pea A fragrant summer flower. Foraging - Summer
Like
“ “This looks wonderful. Thanks so much!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes
All Fruit
Goat Milk The milk of a goat. Goats
Large Goat Milk A gallon of creamy goat's milk. Goats
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - The Mines
Wool Soft, fluffy wool. Sheep, Rabbits
Neutral
“ “This is for me? Thank you!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals (except Wool)
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Large Milk A large jug of cow's milk. Cows
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Milk A jug of cow's milk. Cows
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Dislike
“ “Oh... Um. Thanks.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes
Hate
“ “*sniff* ...what is it?”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
It Howls In The Rain
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Mysterium
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Wumbus
Like
N/A
Dislike
N/A
Love
Cotton Candy
Stardrop Sorbet
Dislike
Black Licorice
Joja Cola
JojaCorn
Sour Slimes
Like
Everything else
Heart Events
Anytime
At any friendship level greater than zero friendship points, you may receive a gift in the mail from Sandy. The chance of receiving a gift in the mail increases as your friendship with Sandy increases.
Expand
Details 
Seven Hearts
After reaching seven hearts with Sandy, she will send you a recipe in the mail.
Expand
Details 
Quotes
Expand
First Meeting 
Expand
Regular 
Expand
Birthday (with Emily) 
Quests
Sandy may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
Sandy is to be gifted the Stardew Valley Rose in The Pirate's Wife quest.
Portraits
Trivia
As stated at the top of the page, Sandy is not her real name. The game never discloses what her real name is.
Sandy may randomly request items at the Help Wanted board outside Pierre's General Store. The monetary reward may be less than the cost of a bus ticket to the Desert.
On Fridays Sandy says "You wouldn't have much luck farming out here, honey. Well, unless you were a cactus farmer." However, in reality, players cannot plant Cactus Seeds in the Desert.
On Saturdays Sandy says "You look really thirsty. Here, have a taste of this ice cold milk." and gives the player Milk when talked to.
Sandy may attend movies with Emily.
As stated in her quotes, she says that Coconuts and Cactus Fruit are "ooh-yummy", even though Coconuts are inedible unless used in a recipe.
Sandy's top can be tailored with 1 Cloth and 1 Tom Kha Soup, creating the Oasis Gown.
References
↑ The time is preceded with the single character 'a' to indicate that the event should end (that is, Sandy should arrive at the destination) at the given time. See Schedule Data for more information.
History
1.3.27: Letters from Sandy use a new white lined stationery, which is unique to her.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs