Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Sap
A fluid obtained from trees.
Information
Source Trees • Slimes
Energy / Health
−2
0
Sell Price 2g
Sap is a foraged item that drops from trees when they are cut down. It is used in various crafting recipes. Sap can be consumed, however it decreases energy by 2 points.
Sap may also be obtained from tapping Mahogany Trees and all Slimes except Big Slimes.
Vincent sells a Sap in his shop at the Desert Festival for 1 Calico Egg.
Contents
1 Recipes
2 Gifting
3 Bundles
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 Trading
7 Bugs
8 History
Recipes
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Basic Fertilizer Improves soil quality a little, increasing your chance to grow quality crops. Mix into tilled soil.
Sap (2)
Farming Level 1
Quality Fertilizer (2) Improves soil quality, increasing your chance to grow quality crops. Mix into tilled soil.
Sap (4)
Any Fish (1) Farming Level 9
Deluxe Fertilizer (5) Greatly improves soil quality, increasing your chance to grow quality crops. Mix into tilled soil.
Sap (40)
Iridium Bar (1)
Mr. Qi ( 20)
Torch Provides a modest amount of light.
Sap (2)
Wood (1)
Starter
Trap Bobber Causes fish to escape slower when you aren't reeling them in.
Sap (10)
Copper Bar (1)
Fishing Level 6
Fiber Seeds (4) Plant these in any season. Does not require watering. Harvest with the scythe. Takes 7 days to grow.
Sap (5)
Clay (1)
Mixed Seeds (1)
Linus (Special Order)
Quality Bobber Boosts the quality of fish that you catch.
Sap (20)
Copper Bar (1)
Solar Essence (5)
Willy (Special Order)
Statue Of Blessings Touching the statue gives a unique blessing every day.
Sap (999)
Fiber (999)
Stone (999)
Moss (333)
Farming Mastery
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Five hundred Sap are required in the Sticky Bundle in the Crafts Room (Remixed).
Tailoring
Sap is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with Cloth in the feed to create a Tan Striped Shirt. It is a yellow dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed. It can be placed in the yellow dye pot at Emily's and Haley's house for use in dyeing.
Quests
Sap is not used in any quests.
Trading
Once unlocked, the Raccoon's wife near Giant Stump will trade for Sap.
Image Name Description Price Requirements
Summer Squash Seeds Plant in the summer. Takes 6 days to grow, and continues to produce after first harvest.
Sap (15)
1st Request Completed
Bugs
While playing local co-op on console, if the player or a farmhand has had exhaustion the previous day and consumes a poisonous item that reduces their energy to zero (or below), the game will soft-lock.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Used as an ingredient to the Deluxe Fertilizer, Fiber Seeds, and Quality Bobber recipes. Is now used in the Sticky Bundle.
1.6: Can now be traded for Summer Squash Seeds. Recipe for Quality Fertilizer changed. Can now be purchased at Desert Festival.
Foraging
Basic Sap
Spring Common Mushroom • Daffodil • Dandelion • Leek • Morel • Salmonberry • Spring Onion • Wild Horseradish
Summer Fiddlehead Fern • Grape • Red Mushroom • Spice Berry • Sweet Pea
Fall Blackberry • Chanterelle • Common Mushroom • Hazelnut • Wild Plum
Winter Crocus • Crystal Fruit • Holly • Snow Yam • Winter Root
The Beach Clam • Cockle • Coral • Mussel • Nautilus Shell • Oyster • Rainbow Shell • Sea Urchin • Seaweed
The Mines Cave Carrot • Purple Mushroom • Red Mushroom
The Desert Cactus Fruit • Coconut
Skull Cavern Dinosaur Egg • Fiddlehead Fern
Ginger Island Ginger • Magma Cap
Category: Foraging