Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Sea Jelly
A rare jelly found in the ocean.
Information
Source Fishing Pole • Flounder Fish Pond • Bookseller • Turtle
Buff(s)
Fishing (+1)
Buff Duration
7m
Season  All
XP
Fishing Pole: 3 Fishing XP
Fish Pond: 15 Fishing XP
Energy / Health
88
39
Sell Price 200g
Sea Jelly is an item that can be caught using a Fishing Pole during all seasons at the Beach, on the Beach Farm, the submarine ride at the Night Market, and at Ginger Island West (ocean), South, Southeast, and the Pirate Cove. Each level of Luck Buff applied significantly increases the chance of catching it. Daily Luck has no effect.
It can also be acquired from a Flounder Fish Pond with a population of at least 7. The Bookseller may trade 3 Sea Jelly for 1 Jewels Of The Sea each, provided the player has already earned the power from that book. It can also be gifted by a pet turtle with max friendship.
Sea Jelly is displayed in the Fish section of the collection tab, and counts towards the four fishing Achievements. However, it is otherwise not considered to be a fish, and therefore cannot be sold to Willy at the Fish Shop, does not benefit from fish price bonuses, cannot be used in place of "Any Fish" in recipes, and cannot be put in a Bait Maker, Fish Smoker, or Fish Pond.
Contents
1 Crafting
2 Gifting
3 Tailoring
4 Bundles
5 Quests
6 Strategy
7 References
8 History
Crafting
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Fish Smoker (1) Place fish inside with a piece of coal to create smoked fish, which is worth double. The quality of the fish is preserved.
Hardwood (10)
Sea Jelly (1)
River Jelly (1)
Cave Jelly (1)
Fish Shop for 10,000g
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Tailoring
Sea Jelly is not used in any tailoring. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a blue dye at the dye pots located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane. It can also be used as a cyan dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed.
Bundles
Sea Jelly is not used in any bundles.
Quests
One Sea Jelly is requested by Flounder in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 5 to 10.
Strategy
The highest possible rates for Sea Jelly are when fishing on the beach in Ginger Island West using a Training Rod. Under these conditions, there are only 2 possible catches: Sea Jelly and Snake Skull, as all of the fish that can be caught have difficulty greater than or equal to 50. Only if the farmer fails the random check to catch both of these will the farmer get Trash.
It is also possible to achieve similar rates however on Ginger Island South, or on the Beach during Summer, although Seaweed instead of Snake Skulls will be the alternative drop.
However, unlike when catching regular fish or other items, the random value used to determine whether a Sea Jelly is successfully caught is predetermined. This value only changes when catching a Cave, River, or Sea Jelly, or any Fish. It is not changed by catching Seaweed, Trash, or any other catchable items.[1] Because of this, after catching Trash using the Training Rod, it is necessary to catch a regular fish before another Sea Jelly. This can easily be done by switching to any Fishing Pole other than the Training Rod, continuing to fish until an actual fish is caught, and then switching back to the Training Rod.
Ordinarily, 10% of possible random values result in a successful Sea Jelly catch. Each level of Luck Buff increases the chance of a successful catch by 5%.[2] So with +8 Luck, 50% of random values will result in a successful catch. This allows for longer streaks without failing a Sea Jelly catch, although the player will still unavoidably catch some Snake Skulls or Seaweed, depending on the area chosen.
References
↑ See GameLocation::GetFishFromLocationData and FishingRod::tickUpdate in the game code. The seeded RNG function is only progressed when the "PreciseFishCaught" stat is incremented, and "PreciseFishCaught" is only incremented on catching a fish or item with the "counts_as_fish_catch" tag from a non-fish pond. The only items with that tag are Sea, River, and Cave Jelly, see Data/Objects.xnb in the game files.
↑ See Locations.xnb in the game files, and SpawnFishData::GetChance in the game code for how it's applied.
History
1.6: Introduced.
Category: Fishing