Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Sea Urchin
A slow-moving, spiny creature that some consider a delicacy.
Information
Source Foraging • Fish Pond • Turtle
Location The Beach • Dangerous Mines
Season  All
Energy Inedible
Sell Price
160g
200g
240g
320g
Artisan Sell Prices
Roe Aged Roe Aged Roe (+40%)
110g
220g
308g
The Sea Urchin is a forageable item found year-round in the Tide Pool section of the Beach, i.e., to the east of the wooden footbridge[1].
During Summer 12-14 extra Sea Urchins appear anywhere on the beach (including possibly the western section). It may also be found foraging on levels 1-29 of the Mines while the Shrine of Challenge is enabled, or the Danger in The Deep quest is active.
The average spawn rate for Sea Urchin in the tide pool section of the beach is 0.23/day. An additional 0.8 (on average) Sea Urchins per day will spawn during Summer 12-14. These spawn rates are not affected by the presence of other forageable items on the beach; in particular, Sea Urchins are not part of the standard six item per map limit on forageable items. 7 Foraging XP are granted for every Sea Urchin picked up, and all Foraging bonuses apply to Sea Urchins.
Emily may occasionally send you a Sea Urchin in the mail as a gift. She also sells five Sea Urchins at her shop at the Desert Festival for 5 Calico Eggs each. All saltwater Crab Pot fish may also produce a Sea Urchin in a Fish Pond, when the population of the pond reaches 5. It can also be gifted by a pet turtle with max friendship.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Crafting
4 Tailoring
5 Fish Pond
6 Quests
7 Secrets
8 References
9 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Evelyn •  Leo
Neutral  Elliott
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Emily •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Sea Urchin is used in the Dye Bundle on the Bulletin Board.
Crafting
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Bait Maker Place a fish inside to create targeted bait.
Iron Bar (3)
Coral (3)
Sea Urchin (1)
Fishing Level 6
Tailoring
Sea Urchin can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the dyeable Strapped Top. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a purple dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Fish Pond
Although Sea Urchins are not otherwise considered to be fish, they can be placed in a Fish Pond, where they will reproduce every 4 days. The initial pond capacity is 10 Sea Urchins; no quests are necessary to increase the pond capacity. The only possible output is purple Sea Urchin Roe.
Produce
Item(s) Produced Fishing XP Granted Population % of Items Overall Daily Chance
Roe (1)
14 1-4 10% 2.3-5%
5-8 28% 15-22%
9-10 51% 44-48%
Roe (5)
14 9-10 2% 1.7-1.9%
Nothing 1-4 90% 98-95%
5-8 72% 85-78%
9-10 47% 54-50%
Quests
One or two Sea Urchins may be requested by various saltwater fish in Fish Pond quests.
Two Sea Urchins may be requested by the Raccoon at the Giant Stump as part of his fifth request, or as part of any request starting with the sixth.
Secrets
Hats can be placed on sea urchins in a fish tank.
References
↑ See Beach::DayUpdate in the game code. The spawn position starts at point (65,11) on the beach map.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests. Can be produced by Fish Ponds. Can be added to Fish Ponds.
1.5: Can now be added to Fish Tanks.
1.6: Now used to craft Bait Maker. Elliott is now neutral towards Sea Urchin. Can now be gifted by a pet turtle with max friendship. Can now be purchased from Emily at the Desert Festival. Now liked by Evelyn. May now be requested by the Raccoon.
Foraging
Basic Sap
Spring Common Mushroom • Daffodil • Dandelion • Leek • Morel • Salmonberry • Spring Onion • Wild Horseradish
Summer Fiddlehead Fern • Grape • Red Mushroom • Spice Berry • Sweet Pea
Fall Blackberry • Chanterelle • Common Mushroom • Hazelnut • Wild Plum
Winter Crocus • Crystal Fruit • Holly • Snow Yam • Winter Root
The Beach Clam • Cockle • Coral • Mussel • Nautilus Shell • Oyster • Rainbow Shell • Sea Urchin • Seaweed
The Mines Cave Carrot • Purple Mushroom • Red Mushroom
The Desert Cactus Fruit • Coconut
Skull Cavern Dinosaur Egg • Fiddlehead Fern
Ginger Island Ginger • Magma Cap
Category: Beach Forage