Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Seafoam Pudding
This briny pudding will really get you into the maritime mindset!
Information
Source Cooking • SquidFest festival • Dance of the Moonlight Jellies • Turtle
Buff(s)
Fishing (+4)
Buff Duration
3m 30s
Energy / Health
175
78
Sell Price
300g
Qi Seasoning
315
141
450g
Recipe
Recipe Source(s)
Fishing (Level 9)
Ingredients
Flounder (1)
Midnight Carp (1)
Squid Ink (1)
Seafoam Pudding is a cooked dish. It is prepared using either the kitchen inside an upgraded farmhouse or a Cookout Kit. One can be purchased for 5,000g from the shop at the Dance of the Moonlight Jellies festival each year. One Seafoam Pudding is part of the iridium tier reward on the 12th and 13th for the SquidFest festival, assuming the player already earned The Art O' Crabbing before from the festival. It can also be gifted by a pet turtle with max friendship. It may also randomly appear at the Traveling Cart for 900–1,500g.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Recipes
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Krobus •  Willy
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Wizard
Bundles
Seafoam Pudding is not used in any bundles.
Recipes
Seafoam Pudding is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Seafoam Pudding is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Mineral Dog Jacket. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a blue dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Seafoam Pudding is not used in any quests.
History
1.4: Introduced.
1.5: Can now be prepared using a Cookout Kit. One can now be purchased at the Dance of the Moonlight Jellies festival each year.
1.6: Now a prize for the SquidFest festival. Can now be gifted by a pet turtle with max friendship.
Recipes
Cooking Algae Soup • Artichoke Dip • Autumn's Bounty • Baked Fish • Banana Pudding • Bean Hotpot • Blackberry Cobbler • Blueberry Tart • Bread • Bruschetta • Carp Surprise • Cheese Cauliflower • Chocolate Cake • Chowder • Coleslaw • Complete Breakfast • Cookie • Crab Cakes • Cranberry Candy • Cranberry Sauce • Crispy Bass • Dish O' The Sea • Eggplant Parmesan • Escargot • Farmer's Lunch • Fiddlehead Risotto • Fish Stew • Fish Taco • Fried Calamari • Fried Eel • Fried Egg • Fried Mushroom • Fruit Salad • Glazed Yams • Ginger Ale • Hashbrowns • Ice Cream • Lobster Bisque • Lucky Lunch • Maki Roll • Mango Sticky Rice • Maple Bar • Miner's Treat • Moss Soup • Omelet • Pale Broth • Pancakes • Parsnip Soup • Pepper Poppers • Pink Cake • Pizza • Plum Pudding • Poi • Poppyseed Muffin • Pumpkin Pie • Pumpkin Soup • Radish Salad • Red Plate • Rhubarb Pie • Rice Pudding • Roasted Hazelnuts • Roots Platter • Salad • Salmon Dinner • Sashimi • Seafoam Pudding • Shrimp Cocktail • Spaghetti • Spicy Eel • Squid Ink Ravioli • Stir Fry • Strange Bun • Stuffing • Super Meal • Survival Burger • Tom Kha Soup • Tortilla • Triple Shot Espresso • Tropical Curry • Trout Soup • Vegetable Medley
Crafting Bug Steak • Field Snack • Life Elixir • Oil of Garlic
Categories: RecipesCooking