Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Seaweed
It can be used in cooking.
Information
Source
Fishing Pole: Ocean
Foraging: The Beach
Garbage Cans
Fish Pond
The "Dangerous Mines"
Season  All
XP
Fishing Pole: 3 Fishing XP
Foraging: 7 Foraging XP
Fish Pond: 18 Fishing XP
Energy / Health
13
5
Sell Price 20g
Seaweed is an item that can be caught using a Fishing Pole in the ocean during all seasons, including a 41% chance to catch Seaweed while fishing in the deep-sea submarine ride at the Night Market. It is never caught in Crab Pots.
It can also be foraged from a narrow strip of shore by the Tide Pools, i.e., to the east of the wooden footbridge[1], but it spawns relatively infrequently (3% chance per night). The saltwater crab pot fish (Cockle, Crab, Lobster, Mussel, Oyster, and Shrimp) may produce 1-3 Seaweed in a Fish Pond when the population of the pond is at least 1. It's also possible to find Seaweed in the "Dangerous Mines" on floors 1-29 when the Shrine of Challenge is turned on. Seaweed can also randomly be found in Garbage Cans.
Catching Seaweed with a Fishing Pole always gives 3 Fishing XP, and picking up from the beach gives 7 Foraging XP. Seaweed, either fished or foraged, is always normal quality.
Seaweed is displayed in the Fish section of the collection tab, and counts towards the four fishing Achievements.[2] However, it is otherwise not considered to be a fish, and therefore cannot be sold to Willy at the Fish Shop, does not benefit from fish price bonuses, cannot be used in place of "Any Fish" in recipes, and cannot be put in a Bait Maker, Fish Smoker, or Fish Pond.
One Seaweed can be placed in any Fish Tank as decoration, including the Community Center's fish tank after the fish tank bundle is completed. Its appearance in player-placed fish tanks can be changed by picking up and re-placing the fish tank.
Contents
1 Map
2 Gifting
3 Bundles
4 Recipes
5 Buildings
6 Tailoring
7 Quests
8 References
9 History
Map
Seaweed can be found in the ocean and on the beach.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Dislike  Leah •  Marnie •  Sam •  Shane
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Seaweed is not used in any bundles.
Recipes
Image Name Description Ingredients Energy / Health Recipe Source(s) Sell Price
Maki Roll Fish and rice wrapped in seaweed. Any Fish (1)
Seaweed (1)
Rice (1)
100
45
The Queen of Sauce
21 Summer, Year 1
Stardrop Saloon for 300g
220g
Buildings
Image Name Description Cost Size
Fish Pond Raise fish and harvest their produce. Fish multiply over time. 5,000g
Stone (200)
Seaweed (5)
Green Algae (5)
5x5
Tailoring
Seaweed is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Kelp Shirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a green dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Seaweed may be randomly requested during any season at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store for a reward of 60g and 150 Friendship points.
1-2 Seaweed may be requested by several ocean fish in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 3 to 5.
References
↑ See Beach::DayUpdate in the game code. The spawn position starts at point (66,24) on the beach map.
↑ In the game data (Data/Objects.xnb) the type assigned to Seaweed is "Fish", but it is not assigned the Fish category (-4). The label displayed in-game and most uses are controlled by the category.
History
1.3.27: Added chance to catch during Night Market.
1.4: Added as forage to the beach. Added as Fish Pond build material. Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests. Can be produced by Fish Ponds.
1.5: Can now be used as decoration in Fish Tanks. Added Shrine of Challenge to sources.
1.6: Can now be used as decoration in Community Center's now-functional fish tank. Foraged Seaweed will now always be normal quality.
Foraging
Basic Sap
Spring Common Mushroom • Daffodil • Dandelion • Leek • Morel • Salmonberry • Spring Onion • Wild Horseradish
Summer Fiddlehead Fern • Grape • Red Mushroom • Spice Berry • Sweet Pea
Fall Blackberry • Chanterelle • Common Mushroom • Hazelnut • Wild Plum
Winter Crocus • Crystal Fruit • Holly • Snow Yam • Winter Root
The Beach Clam • Cockle • Coral • Mussel • Nautilus Shell • Oyster • Rainbow Shell • Sea Urchin • Seaweed
The Mines Cave Carrot • Purple Mushroom • Red Mushroom
The Desert Cactus Fruit • Coconut
Skull Cavern Dinosaur Egg • Fiddlehead Fern
Ginger Island Ginger • Magma Cap
Categories: FishingBeach Forage