Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Sebastian
Information
Birthday  Winter 10
Lives In The Mountain
Address 24 Mountain Road
Family
Robin (Mother)
Maru (Half-Sister)
Demetrius (Step-Father)
Marriage Yes
Clinic Visit  Summer 4
Loved Gifts
Frog Egg
Frozen Tear
Obsidian
Pumpkin Soup
Sashimi
Void Egg
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Two Hearts
5.2 Four Hearts
5.3 Six Hearts
5.4 Eight Hearts
5.5 Ten Hearts
5.6 Group Ten-Heart Event
5.7 Fourteen Hearts
6 Marriage
7 Quotes
8 Questions
9 Quests
10 Portraits
11 Trivia
12 Timeline
13 History
“ “Sebastian is a rebellious loner who lives in his parents’ basement. He is Maru’s older half-brother, and feels like his sister gets all the attention and adoration, while he is left to rot in the dark. He tends to get deeply absorbed in his work, computer games, comic books, sci-fi novels, and will sometimes spend great lengths of time pursuing these hobbies alone in his room. He can be a bit unfriendly to people he doesn’t know. Could a charming new farmer cultivate the wasteland of his heart? Who knows?”
— Dev Update #12
Sebastian is a villager who lives in The Mountains north of Pelican Town. He's one of the twelve characters available to marry.
Sebastian lives in the basement of his mother Robin's carpenter shop, north of town.
Schedule
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Sebastian may randomly spend the day there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Sebastian will immediately go home to bed. Sebastian never visits the Resort on Festival days or his checkup day at Harvey's Clinic.
Shown below are Sebastian's schedules prioritized highest to lowest in each season. For example, when it rains that schedule will override all others below it.
 Spring

 Summer

 Fall

 Winter

 Marriage
Relationships
Sebastian lives with his mother, Robin, along with his step-dad Demetrius and half-sister Maru. Robin sometimes calls him Sebby. He feels that Maru is treated better than he is, and during Winter will talk about building a snow-goon that Demetrius demands he removes; he will then angrily question what his step-father's problem is.
Sebastian is good friends with Sam; the two can be found hanging out at Sam's house or at The Stardrop Saloon playing pool. They also stand together at festivals, along with Abigail.
During the Flower Dance, if neither Abigail nor Sebastian is dancing with the player, Sebastian dances with Abigail.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Sebastian up to two gifts per week (plus one on his birthday), which will raise or lower his friendship with you. Gifts on his birthday ( 10 Winter) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved, liked, or neutral gifts, Sebastian responds
“ “Oh, really? I wasn't expecting this. It looks great, though. Thank you.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Sebastian responds
“ “Uhh... well, I appreciate the thought.”
Love
“ “I really love this. How did you know?”
Frog Egg
“ “Hey, that’s a frog egg! I’ll see if I can get it to hatch. Thanks!”
Obsidian
“ “Is that obsidian? This is exactly what I've been looking for... I'm gonna see if I can shape it into a dagger.”
Pumpkin Soup
“ “You brought me soup? That's really nice of you.
This one brings back a lot of memories...”
Sashimi
“ “I really love this. How did you know?
Mmm... once you get used to eating raw fish, it becomes really addictive.”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Hey, thank you. I'll drink this when the sky gets dark.”
Void Egg
“ “Whoa... This egg speaks to me... I'll put it on my desk. Thanks!
Hmm... I wonder, if I put this under my pillow, will it hatch? Hehe... only one way to find out.”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Frog Egg Summons a hungry frog companion. Monster drop
Frozen Tear A crystal fabled to be the frozen tears of a yeti. Minerals - The Mines
Obsidian A volcanic glass that forms when lava cools rapidly. Magma Geode, Omni Geode
Pumpkin Soup A seasonal favorite. Cooking
Pumpkin (1)
Milk (1)
Sashimi Raw fish sliced into thin pieces. Cooking Any Fish (1)
Void Egg A jet-black egg with red flecks. It's warm to the touch. Void Chicken
Like
“ “Thanks, I like this.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes (except Flowers, Complete Breakfast, Farmer's Lunch, Omelet, Piña Colada, & Artisan Goods other than Coffee, Green Tea, & Oil)
Combat Quarterly Read this to gain some combat experience. Bookseller
Flounder It lives on the bottom, so both eyes are on top of its head. Fishing
Monster Compendium Monsters have a small chance to drop double loot. Monsters
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - The Mines
Neutral
“ “...thanks.”
Jack Be Nimble, Jack Be Thick
“ “What are you trying to say... I need to work out?
Well, I'm more of a 'nimble' guy... Maybe I'll read the first half.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals (except Combat Quarterly & Monster Compendium)
All Fish (except Carp, Flounder, & Snail)
All Fruit (except Fruit Tree Fruit & Salmonberry)
All Milk
Dislike
“ “...?”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Clay, Fish, Frog Egg, Obsidian, & Void Egg)
All Flowers (except Poppy)
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Salmonberry A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest. Foraging - Spring
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
Hate
“ “...I hate this.”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Hates
All Artisan Goods (except Coffee, Green Tea, & Oil)
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
Clay Used in crafting and construction. Tilling
Complete Breakfast You'll feel ready to take on the world! Cooking
Fried Egg (1)
Milk (1)
Hashbrowns (1)
Pancakes (1)
Farmer's Lunch This'll keep you going. Cooking
Omelet (1)
Parsnip (1)
Omelet It's super fluffy. Cooking
Egg (1)
Milk (1)
Piña Colada Drink in moderation. The Beach Resort on Ginger Island
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
It Howls In The Rain
Mysterium
Like
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
Wumbus
Dislike
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Love
Jasmine Tea
Stardrop Sorbet
Dislike
Black Licorice
Cappuccino Mousse Cake
Joja Cola
JojaCorn
Kale Smoothie
Panzanella Salad
Like
Everything else
Heart Events
Two Hearts
Enter Sebastian's room when he's there.
Details 
Four Hearts
Go to The Mountain between 11am and 5pm.
Details 
Six Hearts
Enter Sebastian's room when he's there.
Details 
Eight Hearts
Go to the beach on a rainy day between noon and 11pm.
Details 
Ten Hearts
Go to The Mountain between 8pm and midnight.
Details 
Group Ten-Heart Event
If the player is unmarried and has given a bouquet to all available bachelors, raised friendship with each bachelor to 10 hearts, and seen each bachelor's 10-heart event, then entering The Stardrop Saloon will trigger a cutscene. If Alex is the final bachelor you share a Ten-Heart Event with, the Group Ten-Heart Event will be unavoidable as it is triggered immediately afterwards.
Details 
This event will trigger only one time per save file. This event will not trigger if you are married or have given a Wilted Bouquet or Mermaid's Pendant to one of the marriage candidates.
Fourteen Hearts
Go to The Mountain on a rainy day between 6am and 7pm.
Details 
Marriage
Main article: Marriage
Once married, Sebastian will move into the farmhouse. Like other marriage candidates, he will add his own room to the right of the bedroom. He'll also set up a small area behind the farmhouse for his motorcycle, and sometimes go there to work on it.
On mornings when Sebastian stays inside the farmhouse all day, he may offer you Coffee. On rainy days, he may offer you a gift he found in "the caves": Obsidian, Void Essence, Bat Wing, Frozen Tear, Amethyst, or Cave Carrot. On New Years Eve (Winter 28), he'll give you a Beer to celebrate the new year.
Marriage ceremony
Sebastian's room pre-14-heart event
Sebastian's motorcycle
Quotes
Regular 

Events 
After Marriage 


Questions
Friday
“ “*yawn*... I was up until 3 reading this new book... Do you read, (Name)?”
Yep. The classics. (-30 friendship.)
Sebastian responds: "Oh yea? Hmm... Not really my thing, but everyone's different I guess."
Only Sci-fi and Fantasy (+30 friendship.)
Sebastian responds: "Oh yeah? Well, did you read the new 'Cave Saga X'? I won't spoil it for you, but oh man..."
I like a good Romance (No effect on friendship.)
Sebastian responds: "Oh yea? Hmm... Not really my thing, but everyone's different I guess."
No, I don't read books (-30 friendship.)
Sebastian responds: "Oh yea? Hmm... Not really my thing, but everyone's different I guess."
Friday
“ “*sigh*... If gas wasn't so expensive I'd ride my motorcycle to the city today. So what do you do when you aren't working?”
More farming. (No effect on friendship.)
Sebastian responds: "Oh yea? Hmm... Not really my thing, but everyone's different I guess."
Comic books (+30 friendship.)
Sebastian responds: "Oh yeah? Well, did you read the new 'Cave Saga X'? I won't spoil it for you, but oh man..."
Shopping (-30 friendship.)
Sebastian responds: "Oh yea? Hmm... Not really my thing, but everyone's different I guess."
Sports (-30 friendship.)
Sebastian responds: "Oh yea? Hmm... Not really my thing, but everyone's different I guess."
Quests
Sebastian may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
Portraits
Trivia
Despite hating Beer, he will give it to you on Winter 28th to celebrate the new year if married.
Timeline
Sebastian's look evolved over the years the game was in development. Here's a timeline showing how ConcernedApe's art and Sebastian's style changed over the years before the game was launched.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Added motorcycle area behind farmhouse if married.
1.3.27: Added group 10-heart event.
1.4: Added 14 heart event. Now hates Mead. Changed festival dialogues from "halloween" to "Spirit's Eve" in English.
1.5: Added beach portraits.
1.6: Added winter portraits. Added Sebastian Portrait.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: Marriage candidates