Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Shane
Information
Birthday  Spring 20
Lives In Cindersap Forest
Address Marnie's Ranch
Family
Marnie (Aunt)
Jas (Goddaughter)
Marriage Yes
Loved Gifts
Beer
Hot Pepper
Pepper Poppers
Pizza
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Anytime
5.2 Two Hearts
5.3 Three Hearts
5.4 Four Hearts
5.5 Six Hearts
5.6 Seven Hearts I
5.7 Seven Hearts II
5.8 Seven Hearts III
5.9 Eight Hearts
5.10 Ten Hearts
5.11 Group Ten-Heart Event
5.12 Fourteen Hearts
6 Marriage
7 Quotes
8 Quests
9 Portraits
10 Timeline
11 Trivia
12 History
“ “I'm renting my room from Marnie at a really good price. It's small but I can't complain. If I could reset my life maybe I'd start a chicken farm. Only free-range eggs of course.”
— Shane
Shane is a villager in Pelican Town who is often rude and unhappy, is a heavy drinker, and suffers from depression. However, his attitude starts to change toward any player who chooses to befriend him. He works at JojaMart most days between 9am and 5pm unless the Community Center is completed, and he frequently spends his evenings in The Stardrop Saloon. He doesn't work on the weekend except on rainy days, and is frequently around Marnie's ranch.
In the Social Status menu, Shane's outfit will change to a Joja Corporation uniform when he is at his job at JojaMart. He's one of the twelve characters available to marry.
Schedule
If it is raining, Shane will go to work at JojaMart on Saturdays or Sundays, if the Community Center is not complete. He will also go to work at JojaMart until the day after completing the Community Center. Otherwise, he is usually found at The Stardrop Saloon in the evenings.
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Shane may randomly spend the day there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Shane will immediately go home to bed. Shane never visits the Resort on Festival days.
Shown below are Shane's schedules prioritized highest to lowest within each season. For example, if it is raining, that schedule overrides all others below it.
 Spring


 Summer


 Fall


 Winter


 Marriage
Relationships
Shane lives at his aunt Marnie's ranch with his goddaughter Jas. He works at JojaMart (unless the Community Center is completed), and Morris is his manager there.
During the Flower Dance, he will dance with Emily if neither of them are dancing with the player.
Note: Shane's relationship with Jas is revealed in only one place in the game: a dialogue from Jas that occurs only on Sundays.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Shane up to two gifts per week (plus one on his birthday), which will raise or lower his friendship with you. Gifts on his birthday ( 20 Spring) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved gifts, Shane responds
“ “Oh, is it my birthday? I was hoping I'd forget.
This is actually really nice, though. Thank you.”
For liked gifts, Shane responds
“ “Oh, is it my birthday? That's right... I almost forgot. Thanks.”
For neutral gifts, Shane responds
“ “For my birthday? Thanks.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Shane responds
“ “It's my birthday and you give me this? Is this some kind of joke?”
Love
“ “Oh wow, (Name)! How'd you know this is my favorite?”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Heh... thanks. Tastes just like beer.”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Beer Drink in moderation. Keg, The Stardrop Saloon
Wheat (1)
Hot Pepper Fiery hot with a hint of sweetness. Farming - Summer
Pepper Poppers Spicy breaded peppers filled with cheese. Cooking
Hot Pepper (1)
Cheese (1)
Pizza It's popular for all the right reasons. Cooking, The Stardrop Saloon
Wheat Flour (1)
Tomato (1)
Cheese (1)
Like
“ “This is great! Thanks!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes (except Pickles)
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
All Fruit (except Hot Pepper)
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Neutral
“ “Oh, you got me something? Thanks!”
Strange Bun
“ “Oh, you made it? *squish*… Um… *smack*… I think I’ll stick to frozen pizza. But thanks.”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Neutrals
All Milk
Strange Bun What's inside? Cooking
Wheat Flour (1)
Periwinkle (1)
Void Mayonnaise (1)
Dislike
“ “I don't really like this.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Seaweed It can be used in cooking. Fishing
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
Hate
“ “Why are you giving me your garbage?”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Hates (except Seaweed & Strange Bun)
Pickles A jar of your home-made pickles. Preserves Jar Any vegetable or Ginger (1)
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - The Mines
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
It Howls In The Rain
Wumbus
Like
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Mysterium
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
Dislike
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Love
Hummus Snack Pack
Joja Cola
JojaCorn
Nachos
Personal Pizza
Stardrop Sorbet
Dislike
Apple Slices
Black Licorice
Cappuccino Mousse Cake
Kale Smoothie
Panzanella Salad
Truffle Popcorn
Like
Everything else
Heart Events
Anytime
At any friendship level greater than zero friendship points, you may receive a gift in the mail from Shane. The chance of receiving a gift in the mail increases as your friendship with Shane increases.
Details 
Two Hearts
Enter Cindersap Forest between 8pm and midnight.
Details 

Three Hearts
After reaching 3 hearts with Shane, he will send you a recipe in the mail. He will also become slightly less rude to you during dialogues.
Details 

Four Hearts
After reaching four hearts with Shane, his dialogues with you will become more friendly.
Enter Marnie's Ranch at any time.
Details 
Six Hearts
Enter Cindersap Forest between 9am and 8pm while storming or raining.
Details 
Seven Hearts I
Enter Marnie's Ranch while Shane is home after triggering Shane's six heart event.
Details 
Seven Hearts II
Enter the town between 10am and 4pm on a sunny day. (Also requires 2 hearts with both Emily and Clint.)
Details 
Seven Hearts III
After reaching 7 hearts with Shane, he will send you a recipe in the mail.
Details 

Eight Hearts
Enter Marnie's Ranch while Shane is home.
Note: Will not trigger until the player has seen the follow-up visit from Shane after his 6-heart event.
Details 
Ten Hearts
Exit your house before 6:30am to initiate the event, then walk to the Bus Stop between 4pm and 6pm.
Details 
Group Ten-Heart Event
If the player is unmarried and has given a bouquet to all available bachelors, raised friendship with each bachelor to 10 hearts, and seen each bachelor's 10-heart event, then entering The Stardrop Saloon will trigger a cutscene. If Alex is the final bachelor you share a Ten-Heart Event with, the Group Ten-Heart Event will be unavoidable as it is triggered immediately afterwards.
Details 
This event will trigger only one time per save file. This event will not trigger if you are married or have given a Wilted Bouquet or Mermaid's Pendant to one of the marriage candidates.
Fourteen Hearts
Enter town on a non-Friday between 8am and 5pm. For parts II and III enter town anytime each of the next two days.
Details 
Marriage
Main article: Marriage
Once married, Shane will move into the farmhouse. Like other marriage candidates, he will add his own room to the right of the bedroom. He'll also set up a small chicken coop behind the farmhouse, where he'll sometimes go to visit with his chicken "Charlie".
On rainy days, Shane may offer you Beer, Large Egg, Pale Ale, Void Egg, or Pepper Poppers. On days when Shane stays inside the farmhouse all day, he may offer you Omelet, Pepper Poppers, or Pizza.
Shane's room
Shane with his chicken "Charlie"
Quotes
Regular 
Events 
After Marriage 






Quests
Shane may randomly request an item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
Portraits
Timeline
Shane's look evolved over the years the game was in development. Here's a timeline showing how ConcernedApe's art and Shane's style changed over the years before the game was launched.
Trivia
Judging by the 'Mega Station' console in Shane's bedroom, he is a gamer. Additionally, it is hooked up to a 'Code Sultan XL'.
During Shane's second seven heart event, Clint says that "Joja Cola has three times the sorbitol for a thick, sweet, blast." The joke is that sorbitol is a thick, slightly sweet substance that when consumed in large quantities can cause gastrointestinal distress, with symptoms such as gas and diarrhea (both of which could be considered a "blast.")
When married, he'll admit to wishing "that he was six inches taller".
When comparing the male sprites to each other during the Flower Dance cutscene, Shane is relatively shorter.
He used to play for his high school's varsity gridball team.
In Secret Note #7, it is confirmed that he is one of three 'older bachelors' in Pelican Town.
Shane's original shirt appears to be based on a Seattle Sounders soccer jersey.
Even though he gives you the recipe for a Strange Bun, it is only a neutral gift to him.
Shane hates Joja Cola as a gift. Despite this, he will sometimes say "Buh... Where's the Joja Cola?", and he is seen surrounded by empty Joja Cola cans in his fourteen hearts event.
Despite hating Joja Cola as a gift, a Movie Theater Joja Cola will be a loved snack if you purchase it for Shane.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Added ability to marry, updated heart events, dialogue and schedule. Added a door (that locks) to his room at Marnie's Ranch.
1.2.26: Changed 6-heart event dialogue response.
1.3.27: Added group 10-heart event.
1.4: Added 14 heart event. Fixed bug preventing him from attending Night Market. Shane now sends Strange Bun recipe at 7 hearts instead of 3.
1.5: Added beach portraits.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Added winter portraits and more beach portraits. Is now neutral to Strange Bun as a gift. Added Shane Portrait. Restored custom married acceptance dialogue at the Flower Dance and added unmarried acceptance dialogue.
1.6.9: Added work portraits.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: Marriage candidates