Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Skeletal Tail
It's pretty short for a tail.
Information
Artifact Spots: N/A
Monster Drops: N/A
Other Sources:
Fishing Treasure Chest
Tilling in The Mines or Skull Cavern
Bone Node (0.8%)
Donation Reward:
Sloth Skeleton R
Sell Price: 100g
The Skeletal Tail is an Artifact that can be found from:
Fishing Treasure Chests.
tilling soil in The Mines or Skull Cavern.
From Bone Nodes on the Ginger Island Dig Site.
Gifted by a pet dog with max friendship.
Contents
1 Donation
2 Bone Mill
3 Gifting
4 Bundles
5 Recipes
6 Tailoring
7 Quests
8 History
Donation
Donation of this item contributes to the total count of donations for the Museum.
Donating this item, along with the Prehistoric Tibia, will reward the player with the Sloth Skeleton R statue.
Bone Mill
The Skeletal Tail can be turned into Quality Fertilizer, Speed-Gro, Deluxe Speed-Gro or Tree Fertilizer in the Bone Mill.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Dwarf •  Penny
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Skeletal Tail is not used in any bundles.
Recipes
Skeletal Tail is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Skeletal Tail is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with Cloth in the feed to create a Skeleton Shirt. It is a white dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed.
Quests
"Fragments of the past": Gunther may make a request on the Special Orders board for 100 of any combination of bone items that must be gathered while the quest is active. You have 7 days to complete the quest. The reward is 3,500g and the Bone Mill recipe.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: The Skeletal Tail can now be turned into Fertilizer in the Bone Mill. Artifacts are now liked by the Dwarf and Penny, disliked by all other NPCs.
1.6: Can now be gifted by a pet dog with max friendship.
Artifacts
Artifacts Amphibian Fossil • Anchor • Ancient Doll • Ancient Drum • Ancient Seed • Ancient Sword • Arrowhead • Bone Flute • Chewing Stick • Chicken Statue • Chipped Amphora • Dinosaur Egg • Dried Starfish • Dwarf Gadget • Dwarf Scroll I • Dwarf Scroll II • Dwarf Scroll III • Dwarf Scroll IV • Dwarvish Helm • Elvish Jewelry • Glass Shards • Golden Mask • Golden Relic • Nautilus Fossil • Ornamental Fan • Palm Fossil • Prehistoric Handaxe • Prehistoric Rib • Prehistoric Scapula • Prehistoric Skull • Prehistoric Tibia • Prehistoric Tool • Prehistoric Vertebra • Rare Disc • Rusty Cog • Rusty Spoon • Rusty Spur • Skeletal Hand • Skeletal Tail • Strange Doll (green) • Strange Doll (yellow) • Trilobite
Category: Artifacts