Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Slime Egg-Press
Compresses 100 pieces of slime into a slime egg. It's a miracle of science!
Information
Source Crafting • Bookseller
Sell Price Cannot be sold
Crafting
Recipe Source
Combat (Level 6)
Ingredients
Coal (25)
Fire Quartz (1)
Battery Pack (1)
The Slime Egg-Press is a piece of equipment used to create Slime Eggs from Slime. The crafting recipe is unlocked after reaching Combat Level 6. The Bookseller may trade 1 Slime Egg-Press for 2 Monster Compendiums each, provided the player has already earned the power from that book.
The Slime Egg-Press can be started by adding 100 Slime from the toolbar, and it creates 1 Green, Blue, Red, or Purple Slime Egg after 1,200m (20h).[1] It cannot produce Tiger Slime Eggs. Slime Eggs can then be used to hatch new slimes in the Slime Hutch or elsewhere, or they can be sold for profit.
The color of the egg is random, and the slime's gender can only be determined after hatching from a Slime Incubator. The color of the slime(s) from which pieces of slime were obtained does not affect the color of the resulting egg.
The chances for the press to generate a particular egg are:[2]
64.125% Green Slime Egg
21.375% Blue Slime Egg
9.5% Red Slime Egg
5% Purple Slime Egg
Notes
The average value of each Slime Egg produced by the Slime Egg-Press is roughly 1,500g, which is triple the sell value of the Slime used to create it.
References
↑ See Object::performObjectDropInAction in the game code.
↑ See Data\Machines.xnb in the game files.
History
1.6: Can now be obtained by trading with the Bookseller.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Category: Craftable items