Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Slime Ball
Filled with slime.
Information
Source Slime Hutch
Season  All
Sell Price Cannot be sold
Slimes produce Slime Balls in a Slime Hutch on a daily basis, but only if there are enough slimes present and the water troughs are filled. Up to four slime balls per day are possible in one Slime Hutch, and the types of slimes present has no impact on spawning.
The minimum requirements for just one slime ball to form is at least five slimes (of any gender) and at least one filled water trough.[1] To get four slime balls per day, there must be at least 20 slimes living in the hutch and all four water troughs must be filled. Whether or not the slimes can reach the water troughs (because of obstacles placed in the hutch) does not matter. There must also be enough unoccupied tiles in the hutch; note that slime balls cannot spawn on crafted flooring.
The Slime Ball can be right-clicked to release 10 to 21 Slime items. Slime balls also have a 33% chance to have Petrified Slime inside.[2]
Bugs
On mobile versions of the game, loading a middle-of-the-day save file (either an Emergency Save or a Backup Save), causes all water troughs in Slime Hutches to be prematurely emptied. Therefore, Slime Balls will never spawn the following morning. To reliably produce Slime Balls on mobile versions of the game, it is best to fill water troughs at the end of the day, shortly before going to sleep.
References
↑ See game code in SlimeHutch::DayUpdate.
↑ Similarly to Potato, the game generates a random number between 0 and 1, and if it is less than 0.33, then a Petrified Slime will spawn. This repeats until the random number is greater than or equal to 0.33, at which point the chance for an extra Petrified Slime ends. See game code in Object.CheckForActionOnSlimeBall.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Added Petrified Slime to possible drops.
Animals and Produce
Coop Chicken (Egg • Large Egg • Brown Egg • Large Brown Egg) • Dinosaur (Dinosaur Egg) • Duck (Duck Egg • Duck Feather) • Golden Chicken (Golden Egg) • Rabbit (Wool • Rabbit's Foot) • Void Chicken (Void Egg)
Barn Cow (Milk • Large Milk) • Goat (Goat Milk • Large Goat Milk) • Sheep (Wool) • Ostrich (Ostrich Egg) • Pig (Truffle)
Fish Pond Fish (Roe)
Slime Hutch Slimes (Slime • Slime Ball • Slime Egg)
Other Cat • Dog • Horse • Turtle
Category: Animal Products