Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Solar Essence
The glowing face is warm to the touch.
Information
Source
Ghost
Iridium Bat
Metal Head
Metal Head (dangerous)
Haunted Skull
Squid Kid
Squid Kid (dangerous)
Mummy
Krobus
Hot Head
Blue Squid
Sunfish (Fish Pond)
Sell Price 40g
Solar Essence is a Monster Loot item which is dropped from the Ghost, Iridium Bat, Metal Head, Metal Head (dangerous), Haunted Skull, Squid Kid, Squid Kid (dangerous), Mummy, Hot Head, and Blue Squid. Krobus also sells 10 a day for 80g each. Sunfish may randomly produce a Solar Essence in a Fish Pond when the pond population reaches 10 fish.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Crafting
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Wizard
Neutral  Dwarf
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy
Bundles
Solar Essence is an option for the Adventurer's Bundle in the Boiler Room.
Crafting
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Glowstone Ring Emits a constant light, and also increases your radius for collecting items.
Solar Essence (5)
Iron Bar (5)
Mining Level 4
Mega Bomb Generates a powerful explosion. Use with extreme caution.
Solar Essence (1)
Gold Ore (4)
Void Essence (1)
Mining Level 8
Iridium Band Glows, attracts items, and increases attack damage by 10%.
Solar Essence (50)
Iridium Bar (5)
Void Essence (50)
Combat Level 9
Barrel Brazier Provides a moderate amount of light.
Solar Essence (1)
Wood (50)
Coal (1)
Carpenter's Shop (800g)
Quality Bobber Boosts the quality of fish that you catch.
Solar Essence (5)
Copper Bar (1)
Sap (20)
Willy (Special Order)
Mini-Obelisk Place two on the farm to warp between them.
Solar Essence (20)
Hardwood (30)
Gold Bar (3)
Wizard (Special Order)
Hyper Speed-Gro Greatly stimulates leaf production. Guaranteed to increase growth rate by at least 33%. Mix into tilled soil.
Solar Essence (1)
Radioactive Ore (1)
Bone Fragment (3)
Mr. Qi ( 30)
Tailoring
Solar Essence is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Yoba Shirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a yellow dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
A Solar Essence is needed for the 3rd part of "The Mysterious Qi" Quest.
5 Solar Essence may be requested by several fish in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 7 to 10.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests. Can be produced by Fish Ponds.
1.5: Used as an ingredient to the Quality Bobber, Mini-Obelisk, and Hyper Speed-Gro recipes. No longer used as an ingredient to the Skull Brazier recipe.
Category: Monster Loot