Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Sonar Bobber
Shows what fish is on the line before it's caught.
Information
Source Fish Shop • Crafting • Fishing Treasure Chests
Sell Price 250g
Crafting
Recipe Source
Fishing (Level 6)
Ingredients
Iron Bar (1)
Refined Quartz (2)
Fish being caught is displayed on the top-right of the fishing mini-game
The Sonar Bobber is a tackle that helps fishing by showing what fish is on the line before it is caught. The fish being hooked is revealed right outside of the mini-game display on the top-right.
It can be crafted, purchased from Willy's Fish Shop for 500g after reaching Fishing level 6, or randomly found in regular Fishing Treasure Chests (3-4% chance) after reaching Fishing level 6 and in Golden Fishing Treasure Chests (9-10% chance).[1]
Note that using two Sonar Bobbers on an Advanced Iridium Rod provides no additional benefit as opposed to only using one.
Only the Iridium Rod or the Advanced Iridium Rod can equip tackle. The Iridium Rod can only attach one tackle at a time, while the Advanced Iridium Rod can attach two. To attach tackle, left-click on the tackle, then right-click on the rod. To remove tackle, first right-click to remove any bait, then right-click to remove the tackle. For an Advanced Iridium Rod, the left tackle will be the first one removed.
Tackle does not stack in inventory or chests; each tackle takes up one inventory slot.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Tailoring
4 Quests
5 References
6 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
The Sonar Bobber is not used in any bundles.
Tailoring
Sonar Bobber is not used in any tailoring. It can be used as a gray dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed.
Quests
The Sonar Bobber is not used in any quests.
References
↑ See FishingRod::openTreasureMenuEndFunction in the game code.
History
1.6: Introduced.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Categories: Fishing TackleCraftable items