Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Spa
Open Hours: All Day
Closed: Never
The Spa is located in the southwest area of the Railroad.
By entering the Spa, passing through the changing room, and remaining stationary in the pool, energy and health are restored at 10 points per second.[1]
There are two changing rooms - one for women and one for men. It is possible to enter the changing room opposite to the player's gender, but only after attempting to enter several times in quick succession from the pool area.
While passing through the covered path from the locker room to the pool, the player is forced into walking and changes into a swimsuit whose color is the same as the player's chosen pants color. Prismatic pants result in a prismatic swimsuit. Undershorts result in a white swimsuit.
Contents
1 Secret
2 Livin' Off The Land Tip
3 Gallery
4 Trivia
5 References
6 History
Secret
It is possible to fish in the water outside the spa, except in Winter when the water is frozen. After reading Secret Note #25, the first time fishing there...
Details 
If the player has not found Secret Note #25 or has already solved it, a painting titled 'Vista' can be obtained while fishing. Trash is the only other item that can be caught.
Livin' Off The Land Tip
On the 15th of Summer (odd years), Livin' Off The Land airs an episode about the Spa:
Gallery
Entrance
Penny's locker
Abigail's locker
Alex's locker
Women's Locker Room
Men's Locker Room
Interior
Trivia
It is possible to access the spa before unlocking the railroad by using the sword-swing glitch to get outside the map and walk around to the trigger area behind the blocked path. Unfortunately, this will cause the character to be stuck in the area as trying to leave via the normal exit will cause them to get stuck in the rocks blocking the path.
References
↑ See Farmer::updateCommon in the game code.
History
1.4: Added fishing in water outside spa. Removed bugs allowing players to retain the spa's healing and/or the swimsuit outfit outside of the spa.
1.5: 'Vista' can now be caught in the water outside of the spa. Reintroduced bug that allows the player to retain the swimsuit outside the spa by dying in the changing hallway.
1.6: Re-fixed bug that allows the player to retain the swimsuit outside the spa by dying in the changing hallway.
1.6.9: Fixed bug limiting energy regeneration to the player's normal energy level when the player has an active Max Energy buff.
Buildings
Merchants Abandoned House • Adventurer's Guild • Blacksmith • Bookseller • Carpenter's Shop • Casino • Desert Trader • Fish Shop • Giant Stump • Harvey's Clinic • Ice Cream Stand • Island Trader • JojaMart • Marnie's Ranch • Oasis • Pierre's General Store • Qi's Walnut Room • The Stardrop Saloon • Traveling Cart • Volcano Dwarf • Wizard's Tower
Houses 1 River Road • 2 River Road • 1 Willow Lane • 2 Willow Lane • 24 Mountain Road • Elliott's Cabin • Farmhouse • Island Farmhouse • Leah's Cottage • Mayor's Manor • Tent • Trailer • Treehouse
Farm Buildings Farming Barn • Cabin • Coop • Fish Pond • Greenhouse • Mill • Pet Bowl • Shed • Silo • Slime Hutch • Stable • Well
Special Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Gold Clock • Island Obelisk • Junimo Hut • Water Obelisk
Other Buildings Community Center • Dog Pen • Island Field Office • Joja Warehouse • Movie Theater • Museum • Spa • Witch's Hut
Category: Mountain Locations