(Redirected from Wallet)
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Special Items & Powers tab
The Special Items & Powers tab of the in-game menu displays the special items, book powers, and mastery powers the Player has collected.
Contents
1 Special Items
2 Book Powers
3 Mastery Powers
4 History
Special Items
Special items typically involve a quest line which rewards the Player with an item yielding special power or access.
Image Name Use Obtained
Forest Magic Unlocks the ability to read the language of the Junimos. Reward from the "Meet The Wizard" Quest, unlocked the morning after the player examines the first golden scroll in the Community Center.
Dwarvish Translation Guide Unlocks the ability to speak to the Dwarf in the Mines and the dwarf in the Volcano Dungeon. Reward from the Museum after donating all 4 dwarf scrolls.
Rusty Key Used to enter the Sewers. Received from Gunther the day after donating 60 items to the Museum.
Club Card Used to enter the Casino. Completing the "The Mysterious Qi" Quest.
Special Charm Permanently increases daily luck. From the driver in the truck outside JojaMart (or the Movie Theater if The Missing Bundle is completed) after finding Secret Note #20 and giving him a Rabbit's Foot.
Skull Key Unlocks the door to the Skull Cavern and unlocks the Junimo Kart machine in the Stardrop Saloon. From the chest on floor 120 of the Mines.
Magnifying Glass Unlocks the ability to find Secret Notes. After completing the "A Winter Mystery" Quest.
Dark Talisman Quest item From the chest in the Mutant Bug Lair.
Magic Ink Quest item Found on a table in the Witch's Hut.
Bear's Knowledge Increases sell price of Blackberries and Salmonberries by 3x. Bringing Maple Syrup into the Secret Woods after finding Secret Note #23.
Spring Onion Mastery Increases sell price of Spring Onions by 5x. After triggering Vincent and Jas' 8 heart event.
Key To The Town Allows access to all buildings in town, at any time of day (with some restrictions). Bought from Qi's Walnut Room for 20 Qi Gems.
Book Powers
Each of these powers is obtained after reading a specific book for the first time. The books are obtained in a variety of ways.
The Bookseller who visits the town twice every month sells many of them, but most of them are only available starting in Year 3 and only have a ≈9% chance to appear.
Image Name Description Location
Price Catalogue You can now see the value of your items.
Bought from the Bookseller for 3,000g
Mapping Cave Systems You get a 50% discount on Marlon's item retrieval service.
Found in a box in the back of the Adventurer's Guild. Must slay at least 1000 monsters total to open door.
Bought from the Bookseller for 20,000g starting in year 3
Way Of The Wind pt. 1 You run a little bit faster.
Bought from the Bookseller for 15,000g
Way Of The Wind pt. 2 You run a little bit faster.
Bought from the Bookseller for 35,000g after having obtained the power from Way Of The Wind pt. 1
Monster Compendium Monsters have a small chance to drop double loot.
Dropped from slain monsters
Bought from the Bookseller for 20,000g starting in year 3
Friendship 101 You become friends with people a little faster.
Given as a prize from the prize machine in Lewis' house
Bought from the Bookseller for 20,000g starting in year 3
Jack Be Nimble, Jack Be Thick Gain +1 Defense.
Obtained from Artifact Spots
Bought from the Bookseller for 20,000g starting in year 3
Woody's Secret Felled trees have a 5% chance to yield double the wood.
Obtained from chopping trees
Bought from the Bookseller for 20,000g starting in year 3
Raccoon Journal Weeds have a greater chance to yield mixed seeds.
Given as a reward for completing the second raccoon item quest.
Bought from the Bookseller for 20,000g starting in year 3
Traded from the Raccoon Wife's Shop for 999 Fiber
Jewels Of The Sea Fishing treasure chests have a chance to yield roe.
Obtained as a reward from a Fishing Treasure Chest
Bought from the Bookseller for 20,000g starting in year 3
Dwarvish Safety Manual Bombs deal 25% less damage to you.
Bought from the Dwarf for 4,000g
Bought from the Bookseller for 20,000g starting in year 3
The Art O' Crabbing Crab pots have a 25% chance to yield double.
Obtained as an Iridium Tier reward on either day of the SquidFest if the player hasn't received it from the festival before
Bought from the Bookseller for 20,000g starting in year 3
The Alleyway Buffet You have a greater chance to find items in the trash.
Found in the gold trash can between the Blacksmith and the JojaMart, through a hidden hole in the fence.
Bought from the Bookseller for 20,000g starting in year 3
The Diamond Hunter All stones have a chance to drop a diamond when mined by hand.
Bought from the Dwarf in the Volcano Dungeon for 10 Diamond.
Book of Mysteries You have a slightly greater chance to find Mystery Boxes.
Found in Mystery Boxes or Golden Mystery Boxes
Horse: The Book You gain a little extra speed when riding a horse.
Bought from the Bookseller for 25,000g
Treasure Appraisal Guide You will fetch a better price when selling artifacts.
Found in Artifact Troves
Bought from the Bookseller for 20,000g starting in year 3
Ol' Slitherlegs You will now run a lot faster through grass and crops.
Bought from the Bookseller for 25,000g
Animal Catalogue You can access Marnie's shop when she's not around.
Bought from Marnie for 5,000g starting in year 2
Mastery Powers
Five additional powers can be obtained by visiting the Mastery Cave after reaching level 10 in all five skills. Each mastery requires an additional level for which increasingly more experience is required.
Image Name Description
Farming Mastery You can now find Golden Animal Crackers, which permanently doubles a farm animal's produce. Doesn't work on pigs.
Mining Mastery Gem-bearing rocks now grant twice the gems.
Foraging Mastery You can now find Golden Mystery Boxes, which contain superior items.
Fishing Mastery You can now encounter Golden Fishing Treasure Chests.
Combat Mastery Unlocks a new equipment slot for trinkets. Trinkets can be found while adventuring and grant special powers.
History
1.1: Added Magic Ink and Dark Talisman.
1.3.27: Added Magnifying Glass, Special Charm, Bear's Knowledge, and Spring Onion Mastery.
1.5: Added Key To The Town.
1.6: Wallet removed from Skills Tab and functionality replaced by Special Items & Powers Tab. Added new icons and metrics to Skills Tab where Wallet items used to be.
Category: Gameplay