Jump to navigation
Jump to search
The Spirit's Eve festival takes place on the 27th of Fall every year. The player enters the festival by entering Pelican Town between 10:00 pm and 11:50 pm (note that at 11:50 pm it is too late to enter), and upon leaving the festival, the player is returned to The Farm at 12:00 am.
The festival features a maze where the Golden Pumpkin or a Prize Ticket can be obtained. According to townsfolk rumours, the maze was supposedly created by the Wizard. Pierre has a shopping booth where the player can purchase festive items including a rarecrow, a Jack-O-Lantern, and the Jack-O-Lantern recipe.
Contents
1 Haunted Maze
2 Surviving the Haunted Maze
3 Shop
4 Mail
5 Trivia
6 Glitches
7 History
Haunted Maze
The haunted maze is supposedly set up by M. Rasmodius, the Wizard. The villagers say he was so committed to creating a frightening maze that it took him all day to set it up.
A large majority of the townspeople are either frightened or confused by the maze (especially Abigail, who can't continue because she cannot walk past spiders). Jodi does not allow Vincent to go in the maze because it is "too scary for children". However, in the second year maze, Vincent goes in the maze with Sam and Abigail does not participate.
(Entrance of Spirit's Eve Haunted Maze, Year 1)
(The full maze in year 2)
Surviving the Haunted Maze
Like most mazes, the "keep going left" mentality is present here. Just keep on going left; it isn't a huge maze. It may be worth it to stop and talk to the characters, as some of the dialogue can be amusing.
The maze layout alternates between years: A fairly simple maze wherein players can earn a Golden Pumpkin appears in odd years, while a more complex and larger maze with the reward of a Prize Ticket appears in even years. Players can quickly exit the maze after reaching the treasure chest by using a "secret shortcut" mine cart, exiting to the entrance of the maze next to Pierre's booth.
Odd Years
The trick to reaching the end is to take the secret passage, which begins just underneath and to the left of the "?" signpost, and then continues to the right inside the cave to the North. It weaves to the left and right, which requires a little bit of blind navigation. Wearing a ring which provides light, such as the Glow Ring, will allow the player to track their movement more easily. They will exit down into the treasure section of the maze. Inside the treasure chest is a Golden Pumpkin.
Even Years
Again, a secret passage begins just underneath and to the left of the first "?" signpost. Following the path to the end, passing Sebastian, an unmarked secret passage is located at the top right of the maze. This continues over to the section with Sam and Vincent. In the hedges behind the chicken-legged house there are three secret passages to the right of the sign. Only the middle one leads the player into the treasure section of the maze. Inside the treasure chest is a Prize Ticket.
Shop
Pierre has a booth from which he sells the following items:
Image Name Description Price
Jack-O-Lantern (5) A whimsical fall decoration. 750g
Jack-O-Lantern Recipe A recipe to make Jack-O-Lantern 2,000g
Rarecrow #2 (1) Collect them all! (2 of 8) 5,000g
Grave Stone A decorative piece for your farm. 350g
Funky Rug Can be placed inside your house. 4,000g
Mail
Trivia
The top right of the maze contains a hut on chickens legs, a reference to the Slavic folklore character Baba Yaga. The path leading to the hut has three pairs of disembodied hands, a reference to the Russian fairy-tale Vasilisa the Beautiful, which features Baba Yaga.
A transparent dialogue bubble can be seen above the Wizard or Linus while the player is hovering their mouse over them. Clicking on either character won't produce a dialogue, but the dialogue can be found in the game's data files.
Wizard, Year 1: "The affairs of mundane folk matter little to me, but the elementals like a chance to see you up close. It was for them that I created this silly maze."
Linus, Year 1: "Good show, old friend."
Wizard, Year 2: "The trials continue... Every magician must have an apprentice..."
Linus, Year 2: "Haha! Another fine creation, my old friend."
Gus refers to pumpkins as fruits. Despite not being classified as such in-game and in popular usage due to their taste, this is botanically accurate and pumpkins are classified as a pepo or hard-rinded berry, due to the fact that pumpkins grow from flowers.
In even years, Krobus can be seen to the left of the monster cages, between the trees across from the bushes. His dialogue in data files is: "Wh-What are you doing here?"
Glitches
In the same square area as the question mark sign, in the bottom right corner there is another bush passageway, leading to the rest of the maze.
History
1.3.27: Added Grave Stone to Pierre's shop. Golden Pumpkin is now a universally loved gift.
1.4: Passing out from low health on Spirit's Eve day no longer causes the player to be stuck inside Harvey's Clinic until the festival starts. Fixed bug where NPCs would follow non-festival schedules after the festival. Changed Abigail and Sebastian dialogues from "halloween" to "Spirit's Eve" in English.
1.6: Changed Haunted Maze layout for the second year and onwards.
1.6.3: Added minecart shortcut to year 1 Spirit's Eve festival.
Festivals
Spring Egg Festival • Desert Festival • Flower Dance
Summer Luau • Trout Derby • Dance of the Moonlight Jellies
Fall Stardew Valley Fair • Spirit's Eve
Winter Festival of Ice • SquidFest • Night Market • Feast of the Winter Star
Category: Fall festivals