Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Spring Onion
These grow wild during the spring.
Information
Source Foraging
Location Cindersap Forest
Season  Spring
XP 3 Foraging XP
Energy / Health
13
5
18
8
23
10
33
14
Sell Prices
Base Spring Onion Mastery (×5)
8g
10g
12g
16g
40g
50g
60g
80g
Artisan Sell Prices
Base Artisan (+40%)
18g
66g
25g
92g
The Spring Onion is a foraged item found in Spring in Cindersap Forest, but only on the southeast island (i.e., north of the Sewers entrance). Unlike other foraged items, spring onions are respawned daily: all unharvested onions are removed at the end of each day, and new onions appear. The Livin' Off The Land Television channel airs a tip about Spring Onions on day 4. Spring Onions may randomly appear in the Traveling Cart's stock for 100–1,000g.
Harvesting a Spring Onion grants the player 3 Foraging XP. Only one onion can be harvested per plant; the Gatherer profession does not apply to spring onions.
Once the player has earned 8 hearts of friendship with Jas and Vincent, Spring Onion Mastery can be obtained, which permanently increases the sell price of Spring Onions by 5×.
Contents
1 Gifting
1.1 Gifting Spring Onion Juice
1.2 Gifting Pickled Spring Onion
2 Bundles
3 Recipes
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Harvey •  Leah •  Linus
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leo •  Lewis •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Gifting Spring Onion Juice
Spring Onion Juice is the cheapest juice available for gifting.
Villager Reactions
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Shane •  Willy •  Wizard
Hate  Jas •  Sebastian •  Vincent
Gifting Pickled Spring Onion
Spring Onion Pickles is the cheapest pickles available for gifting.
Villager Reactions
Love  Harvey
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sandy •  Willy •  Wizard
Dislike  Leo
Hate  Jas •  Maru •  Sam •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent
Bundles
Spring Onion is an option in the remixed Spring Foraging Bundle in the Crafts Room.
Recipes
Spring Onion is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Spring Onion is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Spring Shirt.
Quests
Spring Onion is not used in any quests.
History
1.3.27: Added Spring Onion Mastery.
1.4: Spring Onions' quality is now determined at the start of the day. This fixes an exploit where repeatedly clicking on a Spring Onion with a full inventory would harvest the Onion and change its quality to the quality of an Onion held in inventory. Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Is now an option in the remixed Spring Foraging Bundle.
1.6: Can now be made into Juice and Pickles.
Foraging
Basic Sap
Spring Common Mushroom • Daffodil • Dandelion • Leek • Morel • Salmonberry • Spring Onion • Wild Horseradish
Summer Fiddlehead Fern • Grape • Red Mushroom • Spice Berry • Sweet Pea
Fall Blackberry • Chanterelle • Common Mushroom • Hazelnut • Wild Plum
Winter Crocus • Crystal Fruit • Holly • Snow Yam • Winter Root
The Beach Clam • Cockle • Coral • Mussel • Nautilus Shell • Oyster • Rainbow Shell • Sea Urchin • Seaweed
The Mines Cave Carrot • Purple Mushroom • Red Mushroom
The Desert Cactus Fruit • Coconut
Skull Cavern Dinosaur Egg • Fiddlehead Fern
Ginger Island Ginger • Magma Cap
Category: Spring Forage