Jump to navigation
Jump to search
SquidFest is a fishing mini festival which takes place at the Beach on the 12th and 13th of every Winter. The festival begins at 6:10am and ends at 2:00am on both days. During the festival, Squid can be caught all day long. Catching certain amounts of squid will earn the player prizes.
Unlike other festivals, shops and homes throughout Stardew Valley (including those at the beach) are not closed on the days of the event, and time continues to pass during the festival. Animals also need to be fed during the event; the game will not automatically consider them to be fed.
Contents
1 Booth
1.1 Prizes
1.2 Quotes
2 Introduction
3 Characters
4 Tips
5 References
6 History
Booth
When interacting with the booth, the player can choose to either claim prizes or receive an explanation of the event.
Prizes
There are 4 tiers of prizes: copper, iron, gold and iridium. The squids needed to be caught for each tier are listed on a sign to the left of the shop. The amount of squid the player has caught is shown in a counter on the top-left corner. The counter resets between days.
Below is the list of tiers and rewards with the number of squids required to be caught on that day to earn the reward.[1] The prizes can all be claimed at once. If the player's inventory is full, any unclaimed prizes will drop onto the ground around the player.
Day Tier Squids Required Possible Reward(s) Notes
Winter 12th Copper 1
Deluxe Bait (20)
The player is guaranteed to earn this reward.
Iron 3
Winter Seeds (10)
Mystery Box (2)
Dish O' The Sea (1)
Dish O' The Sea is a guaranteed reward. The player will also earn exactly one of 10 Winter Seeds or 2 Mystery Boxes, chosen with equal probability.
Gold 5
Pearl (1)
Coffee (3)
The player is guaranteed to earn both of these rewards.
Iridium 8
'Squid Kid' (1)
The Art O' Crabbing (1)
Mystery Box (3)
Seafoam Pudding (1)
'Squid Kid' is a guaranteed reward. The player will also get The Art O' Crabbing if they haven't already received it at the festival. Otherwise, they will earn 3 Mystery Boxes and 1 Seafoam Pudding.
Winter 13th Copper 2
Trap Bobber (1)
The player is guaranteed to earn this reward.
Iron 5
Winter Seeds (15)
Mystery Box (3)
Dish O' The Sea (1)
Dish O' The Sea is a guaranteed reward. The player will also earn exactly one of 15 Winter Seeds or 3 Mystery Boxes, chosen with equal probability.
Gold 7
Treasure Chest (1)
Triple Shot Espresso (3)
The player is guaranteed to earn both of these rewards.
Iridium 10
Squid Hat (1)
The Art O' Crabbing (1)
Mystery Box (3)
Seafoam Pudding (1)
Squid Hat is a guaranteed reward. The player will also get The Art O' Crabbing if they haven't already received it at the festival. Otherwise, they will earn 3 Mystery Boxes and 1 Seafoam Pudding.
Quotes
“ “It's a squid fishing challenge! If you can hit our daily catch targets, you'll win prizes. Check the sign to the left. We also put special bait in the water so the squid are active all day!”
— In-game explanation of event
“ “You haven't earned any rewards yet. Better start catching some squid!”
— Dialogue upon trying to claim a reward without having met the copper tier prize requirement
“ “You don't have any rewards available right now. Keep catching more squid!”
— Dialogue upon trying to claim a reward after having met some but not all of the tier prize requirements and having already claimed all available rewards
“ “Congratulations! You hit our iridium-level target and earned all possible rewards for today.”
— Dialogue after claiming the iridium tier prizes
Introduction
Starting a few days before the festival, a sign will be erected at the same location as the booth.
“ “-----SquidFest-----
Friday the 12th and Saturday the 13th.
A two-day squid fishing bonanza. If you can reach our daily catch targets, you'll win prizes.
(Note: Any personal items found near this sign will be sent to the lost and found)”
Characters
Other characters from outside Stardew Valley also participate in the festival. Below is a list of quotes from them.
Expand
Quotes 









Tips
The player can craft a Bait Maker to obtain some Squid Bait before the festival, as it will significantly reduce the time needed to catch the required Squids. The player can also take a bait maker to the festival to make more squid bait from the festival catch. The catch count does not decrease.
Unlike most other festivals, the map does not change for this event, so a Chest placed at the beach prior to or during the event can effectively extend the player's inventory space and won't be removed after the festival ends.
References
↑ See GameLocation::answerDialogueAction in the game code.
History
1.6: Introduced.
Festivals
Spring Egg Festival • Desert Festival • Flower Dance
Summer Luau • Trout Derby • Dance of the Moonlight Jellies
Fall Stardew Valley Fair • Spirit's Eve
Winter Festival of Ice • SquidFest • Night Market • Feast of the Winter Star
Category: Winter festivals