Jump to navigation
Jump to search
The Stardew Valley Fair is a festival that takes place on Tuesday, the 16th of Fall every year. The player attends the fair by entering Pelican Town between 9am and 3pm. When the player leaves the festival, they will be returned to The Farm at 10pm.
On the day of the Festival, the player cannot enter Pelican Town until 9am. Every home and shop outside the town square is "locked" and cannot be entered before, during, or after the festival.
There are several games where the player can earn Star Tokens, a currency that can be exchanged for prizes at the Shop near the entrance to the Bus Stop. The maximum number of tokens that can be held is 9,999.
The purchase limit on each of the available fixed stock items is 1 (until next year when they replenish). Therefore, the maximum number of Star Tokens that may be used for the fixed stock is 4,900 (2,900 if they have already purchased the Stardrop). The Shop will be fully stocked again the following year, with the exception of the Stardrop which may be purchased only once. Star tokens do not carry over from the previous year, but the mini-games can be repeated to earn more star tokens.
The Fair also has a Grange Display contest where products of the farm can be shown to gain Star Tokens. Talk to Mayor Lewis when ready to have the products judged. All of the Grange Display items can be picked up after judging, but they will not be automatically returned to the inventory. If the player leaves the items behind in the Grange Display, as of version 1.5, they can retrieve them later in the Lost and Found.
North of the fair by the fountains in odd years, Gus can be found cooking Survival Burgers, which the player can eat to refill their energy bar, but this won't be noticeable until exiting the festival. He moves to the east side below 1 River Road in even years.
The festival ends when the player leaves Pelican Town.
Contents
1 Attractions
2 Grange Display
2.1 Scoring
2.1.1 Base Points
2.1.2 Number of Items
2.1.3 Categories
2.1.4 Sell Price & Quality
3 Shop
3.1 Fixed Stock
3.2 Random Stock
4 Mail
5 Trivia
6 External Links
7 References
8 History
Attractions
Booth Name Cost Description
Fishing Minigame 50g Play the Fishing Minigame to catch fish. Each caught fish gives between 12 and 25 points. Any non-fish item caught gives 1 point. Bonus points are earned for perfect catches. It is possible to make over 800 Star Tokens per 50g spent. Can be played as many times as the player has money for.
Slingshot Minigame 50g Shoot the targets with the Slingshot. Each target gives different points — red targets give 1 point, blue targets give 2 points, and purple targets give 5 points. At the end, the player gets a point multiplier based on their accuracy. An accuracy of 100% provides a 4x multiplier. It is possible to win 500 Star Tokens per 50g spent. Can be played as many times as the player has money for.
Smashing Stone Free At the Smashing Stone the player can test their strength by clicking the stone. One Star Token is earned for hitting at the right moment, when the bar hits the top or bottom.
Token Seller 50g per Token At the Star Token Seller, Star Tokens can be purchased for 50g each. This is the least cost effective way to earn tokens, but time-wise, it is the quickest way.
Fortune Teller Booth 100g Each year at the Fortune Teller Booth, Welwick the Fortune Teller will tell the player events from the future for 100g. She will tell the player something about whichever two villagers are at the top of their Social menu, as well as something about whichever skill the player has the highest level in.
If the player has already paid to have their fortune read that year, she will say "I've already read your fortune... go away."
Spinning Wheel Varies At the Spinning Wheel, the player can bet Star Tokens on whether the spinner will land on green or orange.
When the spinner falls below a certain speed, if it would cause the spinner to land on the losing color, there is a chance for it to set its speed to a higher speed, proportional to the player's Luck. This chance is equal to Luck / 15 if the player chose Green, or Luck / 20 if the player chose Orange.[1] As the player cannot eat or drink in the festival (other than Gus's Survival Burgers), the player would need to use any Luck-improving consumables before entering the festival in order to maximize the chance of winning.
With no Luck modifiers, the Wheel is 2.75 times more likely to land on Green than Orange.[2] By taking advantage of this, players can quickly earn the star tokens required to purchase all items in the shop. For maximum expected profit while protecting against losses, the player should always bet 46.7% of their current stars on Green.[3]
Grange Display
To participate in the showcase, bring up to 9 items to put in the grange display which best showcase the player's abilities. The display will be judged on the quality and diversity of the items, and is rewarded with star tokens based on the place achieved. Items can be retrieved after the judging is completed.
In a multiplayer game, there is a single display for the farm that is shared by all players. Only one player may interact with the display at a time - if a player is putting or removing items from the display, no other players may interact with the display. Once the host is satisfied with the display, they can initiate the judging by talking to Mayor Lewis. Lewis will score the display, and all players will receive the same placement. Once the judging is complete, each player must separately talk to Mayor Lewis to receive the Star Tokens.
Games can still be played at the fair after the grange display is judged.
Place Prize Points required
First Place 1,000 90
Disqualified 750 0 (include Mayor Lewis's shorts)
Second Place 500 75
Third Place 200 60
Fourth Place 50 <60
Scoring
The points are calculated as follows:[4]
Base Points
14 points are awarded automatically.
Number of Items
Points based on how many items are submitted, according to the formula: 2x-9 (Where x is the number of items on display).
Number of items Points awarded
9 9
8 7
7 5
6 3
5 1
4 -1
3 -3
2 -5
1 -7
0 -9
It is always better to try and fill all nine spots, even if the items submitted are uncategorized (trash), since leaving any spot empty will lessen the overall score.
Categories
There are eight categories of items recognized by the Fair: Animal Products, Artisan Goods, Cooking, Fish, Foraging (including Flowers and Tree Saps), Fruits, Minerals, and Vegetables. Each category represented in the display earns 5 points, up to a maximum of 30 points. This means only six of these categories need to be filled to maximize the score.
Below are the items that the Fair will recognize in each category. Any items which do not fall into any of these categories will not earn the additional 5 points, but will earn points based on the sell price and quality, explained in the next section.
Expand
Animal Products 
Expand
Artisan Goods 
Expand
Cooking 
Expand
Fish 
Expand
Flowers, Forage, Tree Saps 
Expand
Fruit 
Expand
Minerals 
Expand
Vegetables 
Sell Price & Quality
A number of points for each item are awarded based on its sell price and quality, with a maximum of 8 points per item. The sell price used in-game is the actual sell price, not the base sell price. For example, a gold-quality item with a base sell price of 200g would earn points for having an actual sell price of 300g and for being gold quality.
Sell Price Normal Quality Silver Quality Gold Quality Iridium Quality
0+ 1 2 3 5
20+ 2 3 4 6
90+ 3 4 5 7
200+ 4 5 6 8
300+ 5 6 6 8
400+ 6 6 6 8
One possible 124 point display
Assuming that nine items, each worth 8 points, are submitted and that the items represent at least six unique categories, the highest score obtainable is 125 (14 + 72 + 9 + 30). Getting the maximum score of 125 is only possible if one has access to Deluxe Fertilizer. Out of the eight categories that exist, six contain 8-point items: Animal Products, Artisan Goods, Fish, Foraging, Fruits, and Vegetables. 8 point Vegetable items are only obtainable with Deluxe Fertilizer. Without deluxe fertilizer to grow iridium quality crops, the next best vegetable item is the iridium-quality Fiddlehead Fern, at 7 points. Because of this, the highest score obtainable without access to Deluxe Fertilizer is 124.
Assuming that nine items are submitted representing at least 6 categories, winning with a minimum of 90 points requires submitting eight 4-point items and one 5-point item (14 + (8 x 4 + 5) + 9 + 30 = 90).
Once the judging is complete, make sure to retrieve the items from the table, as they are not automatically returned. However, the items can be retrieved at the Lost and Found in the Mayor's Manor should the player forget to retrieve them before leaving the fair.
Shop
Fixed Stock
Image Name Description Price
Dried Sunflowers Can be placed inside your house. 100
Fedora A city-slicker's standard. 500
Rarecrow #1 Collect them all! (1 of 8) 800
Stardrop A mysterious fruit that empowers those who eat it. The flavor is like a dream... a powerful personal experience, yet difficult to describe to others. 2,000
Prize Ticket Bring this to the prize machine in Lewis' house for a special reward. 1,000
Light Green Rug Can be placed inside your house. 500
Random Stock
Unlike most of the stores in the game, the entire lot is purchased at once (e.g., if buying "Mixed Seeds", the entire lot of 24 is given in a single purchase for the list price of 1000.)
Image Name Description Price
Triple Shot Espresso It's more potent than regular coffee! 400
Pepper Poppers Spicy breaded peppers filled with cheese. 250
Glowstone Ring Emits a constant light, and also increases your radius for collecting items. 1,000
Hay (100) Dried grass used as animal food. 500
Mixed Seeds (24) There's a little bit of everything here. Plant them and see what grows! 1,000
Mail
“ “Dear <player>,
One week from today, we are holding the Stardew Valley Fair in the town square!
It's the biggest event of the year, drawing people from all across the country to our humble town.
If you'd like, you can set up a grange display for the event. Just bring up to 9 items that best showcase your talents. You'll be judged on the quality and diversity of your display.
The fair starts at 9 AM... don't miss it!
-Mayor Lewis”
Trivia
Placing Mayor Lewis' Purple Shorts in the grange display results in him becoming upset and giving the player 750 star tokens to keep his secret. Marnie also comments on the "purple lettuce" in the display.
In odd years, at Gus' barbecue, Evelyn says "I wish Gus would include a vegetarian option. Some zucchini skewers, maybe?" However, the burgers that are being served share a sprite with the "Survival Burger" item, which is made out of vegetarian options.
In even years at the Spirit's Eve festival, Evelyn says "Dear, can you pass the zucchini fritters please?"
If the player speaks to Caroline, she says that Pierre has "been setting aside the best-looking produce for weeks in preparation" for the fair. However, his grange display contains produce that would spoil after sitting for weeks in real life.
The close-up window shown when playing the Spinning Wheel game shows the wheel in front of two tents, but outside the close-up window it's in the middle of Pelican Town square with no tents behind it.
After the Stardew Valley Fair, Jack-O-Lanterns spawn in front of multiple houses in Pelican Town. 4 Decorative Lanterns also spawn in the graveyard.
In even years, the Dwarf can be seen among the barrels beneath the path from the farm to Pelican Town.
The Fortune Teller refers to the Dwarf as "she" even though the Dwarf's gender in the game data is "undefined" (Content\Data\NPCDispositions.xnb). That's due to the way the gender check in the code is written, with all non-males defaulting to "she" and no checks for "undefined" genders. In features added in later game versions (e.g., the Movie Theater), the Dwarf is properly referred to as "they".
In the slingshot mini-game, it is possible to achieve an accuracy greater than 100%. This is due to the way the accuracy is calculated, as the number of successful shots is divided by the number of shots minus 1.[5]
External Links
Grange Display Calculator
Stardew Fair Helper
References
↑ See Menus/WheelSpinGame::Update in the game code.
↑ See Menus/WheelSpinGame::WheelSpinGame in the game code. There are 30 possible initial velocities. Assuming the Wheel starts from position of 0 (pointing straight up) and is given the constant rate of deceleration (with no re-acceleration by Luck), their final position can be precalculated. Of these 30 velocities, only 8 result in Orange being selected, compared to 22 for Green.
↑ The optimal bet can be calculated using the Kelly criterion for bet sizing:
Proportion to bet = Chance of Winning - (Chance of Losing / Profit Margin on Win).
= (22 / 30) - ((8 / 30) / 1)
= 46.7%
↑ See Event::judgeGrange in the game code.
↑ See Minigames/TargetGame::tick in the game code.
History
1.03: Fixed issues regarding the fishing minigame.
1.4: Fixed bug where NPCs would follow non-festival schedules after the festival. Fixed openings allowing players outside the festival area. Fixed various issues involving scoring and the slingshot minigame.
1.4.3: Fixed bug where the player could get their grange score immediately after asking Lewis to judge their grange.
1.5: Added Lost and Found to Mayor Lewis' house for items left in the Grange Display. Doubled star token rewards for the slingshot and fishing minigames. Added random items to Pierre's shop. Fixed bug where walking behind Harvey's Clinic would display the same message as the Smashing Stone game. Fixed player sprite display issues in Fishing mini-game.
1.5.1: Fixed bug where redeeming a stack of items only gave one item instead of the whole stack.
1.5.3: Can no longer catch Qi Beans when fishing during the Fishing Minigame.
1.5.4: Shop no longer sells multiples of the randomly chosen items. Shop now sells Triple Shot Espresso instead of Tea Sapling.
1.6: Fixed two-second pause when entering the event. Jack-O-Lanterns and Decorative Lanterns now spawn in town after this event. Fixed fortune teller always commenting on Combat skill instead of the skill the player had the most points in.
1.6.1: Shop now sells 1 Prize Ticket for 1000 Star Tokens.
1.6.9: Fixed missing tile in odd years' map that allowed the player to go out of bounds.
Festivals
Spring Egg Festival • Desert Festival • Flower Dance
Summer Luau • Trout Derby • Dance of the Moonlight Jellies
Fall Stardew Valley Fair • Spirit's Eve
Winter Festival of Ice • SquidFest • Night Market • Feast of the Winter Star
Category: Fall festivals