Jump to navigation
Jump to search
The Stardew Valley Wiki is an online, public collaboration of information centering around ConcernedApe's game, Stardew Valley. All information contained on this website is provided by the voluntary efforts of individual players and groups working to develop a comprehensive information resource for all Stardew Valley's fans to use and enjoy.
This website is an open wiki. It allows anyone with access to the Internet to create and alter its articles and content. Please note that articles and information found within this wiki have not necessarily been reviewed by the Stardew Valley developer or its licensors.
Although much of the information presented on the Stardew Valley Wiki will be accurate and up-to-date, administrators cannot guarantee the validity and quality of the information. It should be understood that the content of any article may be modified or changed at any time by any member of the community. It should also be understood that any wiki page has a risk of becoming vandalized or improperly altered by users.
To maintain a sense of community on this user-contributed resource, it is encouraged that any user encountering improper, offensive, or otherwise incorrect information simply take the time to edit the article in question and correct the problem. If any situations arise that warrant further involvement, they should be reported directly to Stardew Valley Wiki moderators for review.
No Formal Developer Reviews
While the site administrators can and do access the Stardew Valley Wiki, it should be understood that all articles cannot be officially reviewed at all times. Our community of editors use resources such as the Special:Recentchanges and Special:Newpages feeds to monitor new and changing content.
It should be clearly understood that the Stardew Valley Wiki is not consistently reviewed by staff. While all employees may correct errors or engage in casual peer review, they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of accuracy for any purpose or use whatsoever. Due to open community access to the Stardew Valley Wiki, even articles that have been reviewed by official employees may later have been edited inappropriately, changing their original content.
None of the contributors, sponsors, administrators, developers, or anyone else connected with the Stardew Valley Wiki in any way whatsoever can be held responsible for the appearance of any inaccurate or libelous information or for your use of the information contained in or linked from these Web pages.
No User Contracts and a Limited License
By using the Stardew Valley Wiki, you confirm that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the sites administrators, between you and the users of this site, or between you and anyone else who is in any way connected with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of the Stardew Valley Wiki or any of its agents, members, organizers, or other users.
Providing content for the Stardew Valley Wiki should be done voluntarily with no assumptions of content preservation or compensation.
There is no agreement or understanding between you and the Stardew Valley Wiki regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the CC BY-NC-SA 3.0; neither is any administrator responsible if any contributor should change, edit, modify, or remove any information that you have posted on the site.
Trademarks
Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in a Stardew Valley Wiki article are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these articles under the CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 licensing scheme.
It should be understood that Stardew Valley content and materials are trademarks and copyrights of Stardew Valley or its licensors. All rights reserved.