Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Stone Chest
A place to store your items.
Information
Source Crafting
Sell Price Cannot be sold
Crafting
Recipe Source "Robin's Resource Rush" Special Order
Ingredients
Stone (50)
See also: Chest, Big Chest, Big Stone Chest.
The Stone Chest is a craftable storage item that holds up to 36 different types of items, much like the wooden Chest. The recipe is obtained by mail after completing the Special Order "Robin's Resource Rush".
A maximum of 999 identical items can be stacked into a single slot in a Stone Chest. Items do not decompose in Stone Chests.
Stone Chests can be left in many different places in Stardew Valley. However, if a Stone Chest is left on a walking pathway for a villager, it will be pushed out of their way. See "Crafted goods outside the farm" for maps of areas safe from villager pathing.
An empty stone chest can be picked up and returned to inventory by hitting it with any tool, or hitting repeatedly with an empty hand. Stone chests with any items inside cannot be picked up until emptied; however if a filled chest is hit repeatedly with just an empty hand, it will be pushed one tile away from the player (note that tools will not work for pushing). If that tile is not valid for item placement, the chest can jump to the nearest acceptable tile, such as behind the player, to a diagonally adjacent tile, or over other items to a valid one.
Coloring
When opened, Stone Chests have a color bar above their inventory window which allows players to select a different color for the Stone Chest. This can be changed at anytime without cost. There are 20 colors available to select in the color picker. The default color is equivalent to the "white" color in the color bar.
History
1.5: Introduced.
1.6: Chests are now pushed out from NPC paths instead of being destroyed.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Category: Craftable items