Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Strange Bun
What's inside?
Information
Source Cooking
Shadow Brute (4%)
Spider (4%)
Energy / Health
100
45
Sell Price
225g
Qi Seasoning
180
81
337g
Recipe
Recipe Source(s)
Shane (Mail - 7+ )
Ingredients
Wheat Flour (1)
Periwinkle (1)
Void Mayonnaise (1)
The Strange Bun is a cooked dish. It is prepared using either the kitchen inside an upgraded farmhouse or a Cookout Kit.
Strange Bun may randomly appear in Krobus' shop on Saturdays, in the Stardrop Saloon's rotating stock or the Garbage Can outside the Saloon, or at the Traveling Cart for 675–1,125g. It may also be dropped by a Shadow Brute (4% chance). One Strange Bun may be received from opening a Mystery Box. If Krobus is the player's roommate, he may gift a Strange Bun in the morning.
By offering a Strange Bun to the Dark Shrine of Night Terrors in the Witch's Hut, players can toggle monster spawning on or off on their farm.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Recipes
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 Secrets
7 Trivia
8 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Krobus
Neutral  Shane
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Strange Bun is not used in any bundles.
Recipes
Strange Bun is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Strange Bun is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the dyeable Heart Shirt. It can also be used as a red dye in the dye pots, located at Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Strange Bun is not used in any quests.
Secrets
If a Strange Bun is placed in the toy chest inside Vincent's room, at 1 Willow Lane, the player will receive the ??Foroguemon?? statue.
Trivia
Although Shane sends the recipe for the Strange Bun to the player, he's neutral to it as a gift.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Changed cooking ingredients; replaced Oak Resin with Void Mayonnaise. Increased price.
1.4: Shane will now send a the recipe for Strange Bun in the mail after reaching 7 hearts, instead of 3 hearts. Fixed bug where an entire stack of Strange Buns would be consumed by interacting with Vincent's toy chest. Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Can now be prepared using a Cookout Kit.
1.6: Krobus now likes Strange Bun, Shane is now neutral.
Recipes
Cooking Algae Soup • Artichoke Dip • Autumn's Bounty • Baked Fish • Banana Pudding • Bean Hotpot • Blackberry Cobbler • Blueberry Tart • Bread • Bruschetta • Carp Surprise • Cheese Cauliflower • Chocolate Cake • Chowder • Coleslaw • Complete Breakfast • Cookie • Crab Cakes • Cranberry Candy • Cranberry Sauce • Crispy Bass • Dish O' The Sea • Eggplant Parmesan • Escargot • Farmer's Lunch • Fiddlehead Risotto • Fish Stew • Fish Taco • Fried Calamari • Fried Eel • Fried Egg • Fried Mushroom • Fruit Salad • Glazed Yams • Ginger Ale • Hashbrowns • Ice Cream • Lobster Bisque • Lucky Lunch • Maki Roll • Mango Sticky Rice • Maple Bar • Miner's Treat • Moss Soup • Omelet • Pale Broth • Pancakes • Parsnip Soup • Pepper Poppers • Pink Cake • Pizza • Plum Pudding • Poi • Poppyseed Muffin • Pumpkin Pie • Pumpkin Soup • Radish Salad • Red Plate • Rhubarb Pie • Rice Pudding • Roasted Hazelnuts • Roots Platter • Salad • Salmon Dinner • Sashimi • Seafoam Pudding • Shrimp Cocktail • Spaghetti • Spicy Eel • Squid Ink Ravioli • Stir Fry • Strange Bun • Stuffing • Super Meal • Survival Burger • Tom Kha Soup • Tortilla • Triple Shot Espresso • Tropical Curry • Trout Soup • Vegetable Medley
Crafting Bug Steak • Field Snack • Life Elixir • Oil of Garlic
Categories: RecipesCooking