Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Strange Doll
???
Information
Artifact Spots:
The Farm (0.08%)
The Bus Stop (0.07%)
Pelican Town (0.07%)
The Beach (0.06%)
Cindersap Forest (0.06%)
The Mountain (0.06%)
Monster Drops: N/A
Other Sources: Fishing Treasure Chest (0.12%)
Tilling in The Mines or Skull Cavern (0.03%)
Secret Note #18
Sell Price: 1,000g
The Strange Doll is an Artifact that can be found by digging up an Artifact Spot in many locations (The Farm, the Bus Stop, Pelican Town, The Beach, or Cindersap Forest), or in Fishing Treasure Chests after reaching Fishing level 2. It may also rarely be found by tilling soil in The Mines or Skull Cavern. One Strange Doll (yellow) is always obtained after solving the secret in Secret Note #18.
Contents
1 Donation
2 Gifting
3 Tailoring
4 Quests
5 Trivia
6 History
Donation
Donation of this item contributes to the total count of donations for the Museum.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Jas
Like  Dwarf •  Penny
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Tailoring
The Strange Doll (yellow) is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Bobo Shirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a yellow dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
The Strange Doll (yellow) is not used in any quests.
Trivia
Both the Strange Dolls resemble characters in a series of webcomics called Wumbus World, created by ConcernedApe in 2011.
History
1.3.27: Can be obtained after finding Secret Note #18.
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Artifacts are now liked by the Dwarf and Penny, disliked by all other NPCs.
1.6: Now loved by Jas.
Artifacts
Artifacts Amphibian Fossil • Anchor • Ancient Doll • Ancient Drum • Ancient Seed • Ancient Sword • Arrowhead • Bone Flute • Chewing Stick • Chicken Statue • Chipped Amphora • Dinosaur Egg • Dried Starfish • Dwarf Gadget • Dwarf Scroll I • Dwarf Scroll II • Dwarf Scroll III • Dwarf Scroll IV • Dwarvish Helm • Elvish Jewelry • Glass Shards • Golden Mask • Golden Relic • Nautilus Fossil • Ornamental Fan • Palm Fossil • Prehistoric Handaxe • Prehistoric Rib • Prehistoric Scapula • Prehistoric Skull • Prehistoric Tibia • Prehistoric Tool • Prehistoric Vertebra • Rare Disc • Rusty Cog • Rusty Spoon • Rusty Spur • Skeletal Hand • Skeletal Tail • Strange Doll (green) • Strange Doll (yellow) • Trilobite
Category: Artifacts