Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Stuffing
Ahh... the smell of warm bread and sage.
Information
Source Cooking • Festival of Ice • Bookseller
Buff(s)
Defense (+2)
Buff Duration
5m 35s
Energy / Health
170
76
Sell Price
165g
Qi Seasoning
306
137
247g
Recipe
Recipe Source(s)
Pam (Mail - 7+ )
Ingredients
Bread (1)
Cranberries (1)
Hazelnut (1)
Stuffing is a cooked dish. It is prepared using either the kitchen inside an upgraded farmhouse or a Cookout Kit.
One Stuffing can be purchased each year from the Traveling Merchant's booth at the Festival of Ice for 200g. The Bookseller will trade 3 Stuffing for 1 Jack Be Nimble, Jack Be Thick, provided the player has already obtained the power from that book. It also may randomly appear in Krobus' shop on Saturdays, in the Garbage Can outside the saloon, or in the Stardrop Saloon's rotating stock. Five Stuffing may occasionally be found in a treasure room in the Skull Cavern. One Stuffing may be received from opening a Mystery Box.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Recipes
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Evelyn
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Leah •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Wizard
Dislike  Krobus •  Leo •  Willy
Bundles
Stuffing is one of the options in the Winter Star Bundle on the Bulletin Board (Remixed).
Recipes
Stuffing is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Stuffing can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Flat Topped Hat. It can be used in dyeing, serving as an orange dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Stuffing is not used in any quests.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Reduced sell price from 220g to 165g.
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Can now be prepared using a Cookout Kit. Is now sold by the Traveling Merchant at the Festival of Ice.
1.6: Can now be obtained in quantities of 3 by trading Jack Be Nimble, Jack Be Thick to the Bookseller. Is now an option in the Winter Star Bundle.
Recipes
Cooking Algae Soup • Artichoke Dip • Autumn's Bounty • Baked Fish • Banana Pudding • Bean Hotpot • Blackberry Cobbler • Blueberry Tart • Bread • Bruschetta • Carp Surprise • Cheese Cauliflower • Chocolate Cake • Chowder • Coleslaw • Complete Breakfast • Cookie • Crab Cakes • Cranberry Candy • Cranberry Sauce • Crispy Bass • Dish O' The Sea • Eggplant Parmesan • Escargot • Farmer's Lunch • Fiddlehead Risotto • Fish Stew • Fish Taco • Fried Calamari • Fried Eel • Fried Egg • Fried Mushroom • Fruit Salad • Glazed Yams • Ginger Ale • Hashbrowns • Ice Cream • Lobster Bisque • Lucky Lunch • Maki Roll • Mango Sticky Rice • Maple Bar • Miner's Treat • Moss Soup • Omelet • Pale Broth • Pancakes • Parsnip Soup • Pepper Poppers • Pink Cake • Pizza • Plum Pudding • Poi • Poppyseed Muffin • Pumpkin Pie • Pumpkin Soup • Radish Salad • Red Plate • Rhubarb Pie • Rice Pudding • Roasted Hazelnuts • Roots Platter • Salad • Salmon Dinner • Sashimi • Seafoam Pudding • Shrimp Cocktail • Spaghetti • Spicy Eel • Squid Ink Ravioli • Stir Fry • Strange Bun • Stuffing • Super Meal • Survival Burger • Tom Kha Soup • Tortilla • Triple Shot Espresso • Tropical Curry • Trout Soup • Vegetable Medley
Crafting Bug Steak • Field Snack • Life Elixir • Oil of Garlic
Categories: RecipesCooking