Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Sweet Gem Berry
It's by far the sweetest thing you've ever smelled.
Information
Seed
Rare Seed
Growth Time 24 days
Season  Fall
XP 64 Farming XP
Energy Inedible
Sell Price
3,000g
3,750g
4,500g
6,000g
The Sweet Gem Berry is a crop that grows from a Rare Seed after 24 days. It is not considered a Fruit or Vegetable and cannot be used in a Keg or Preserves Jar, nor does it benefit from the Tiller profession.
Rare Seeds can be purchased from the Traveling Cart for 1,000g in Spring & Summer, or for 600–1,000g in any season. A Seed Maker can also produce Rare Seeds from a Sweet Gem Berry.
Despite its high sell price, the berry is regarded as a neutral gift by all the NPCs in Stardew Valley. When given to Old Master Cannoli in the Secret Woods, the player receives a Stardrop in return. In multiplayer, all players receive a Stardrop with the gift of a single berry.
Contents
1 Stages
2 Crop Growth Calendar
3 Gifting
4 Bundles
5 Recipes
6 Tailoring
7 Quests
8 History
Stages
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Stage 5 Harvest
2 Days 4 Days 6 Days 6 Days 6 Days Total: 24 Days
Crop Growth Calendar
Base
Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun
Agriculturist and Speed-Gro Comparison
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Neutral  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Sweet Gem Berry is one of the options for the Rare Crops Bundle in the Pantry (Remixed).
Recipes
Sweet Gem Berry is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Sweet Gem Berry is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the White Turban. It can also be used as a red dye in the dye pots, located at Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Sweet Gem Berry is not used in any quests.
History
1.5: Iridium quality is now possible when using Deluxe Fertilizer. Bugfix for stages of growth with Deluxe Speed-Gro + Agriculturist. Is now an option for the Rare Crops Bundle.
Crops
Spring Blue Jazz • Carrot • Cauliflower • Coffee Bean • Garlic • Green Bean • Kale • Parsnip • Potato • Rhubarb • Strawberry • Tulip • Unmilled Rice
Summer Blueberry • Coffee Bean • Corn • Hops • Hot Pepper • Melon • Poppy • Radish • Red Cabbage • Starfruit • Summer Spangle • Summer Squash • Sunflower • Tomato • Wheat
Fall Amaranth • Artichoke • Beet • Bok Choy • Broccoli • Corn • Cranberries • Eggplant • Fairy Rose • Grape • Pumpkin • Sunflower • Wheat • Yam
Winter Powdermelon
Special Ancient Fruit • Cactus Fruit • Pineapple • Qi Fruit • Sweet Gem Berry • Taro Root • Tea Leaves
Category: Fall crops