Jump to navigation
Jump to search
This talk page is for discussing Deluxe Speed-Gro.
Sign and date your posts by typing four tildes (~~~~).
Put new text below old text.
Be polite.
Assume good faith.
Don't delete discussions.
Cost section
Does anyone really care about the analysis "Crafting Deluxe Speed-Gro is always cheaper than purchasing it"?
It's technically true... but this is more of a "trivia" sort of thing. Players first learning the game would probably see that and think "Oh, I'm supposed to craft it for a better deal", but then spend their Oak Resin on it. It's such a strange thing to suggest selling Oak Resin anyway (Tapper is notoriously bad, and Tapper analysis isn't included in this analysis anyway...)
I'm thinking it would be better for the article to be more centered around facts relevant to mainstream gameplay, and bump something like this to a "trivia" section?
AllUltima (talk) 23:45, 20 March 2023 (UTC)
I don't think we should assume what readers think. The section has been on the page for 5 years, with no reported harm done until now. I think it's fine as it is. Other opinions are welcome. margotbean (talk) 03:10, 21 March 2023 (UTC)
Caps
So, the way applySpeedIncreases works, speedGrow/Agriculturalist can only remove 3 days per phase, max. How should we best reflect that on the wiki? Atravita (talk) 12:31, 29 November 2023
If it doesn't affect vanilla gameplay at all, then it belongs only in the Modding section. Otherwise, saying it just like you did is fine. But, is this true for all 3 forms of speed-gro fertilizer? Does regular speed-gro ever approach 3 days reduction? Does Hyper Speed-Gro? Saying "a reduction of up to 3 days per phase" for regular Speed-Gro might be misleading if it's not ever that effective.
You've accidentally stumbled on an area of the wiki that needs to be expanded -- the effect of applying all 3 types of speed-gro to all crops at all stages of growth. There are no calendars or time-tables on the wiki at present, and not even I know how many days reduction they will give. So, keeping it simple is best. margotbean (talk) 18:25, 29 November 2023 (UTC)
See, I could have *sworn* you couldn't add speed grow after a plant was sprouted but clearly I misremembered something. I'm not absolutely sure it won't affect something in vanilla (esp at hyperspeedgrow + agriculturalist) but I'm running under the idea that if no one's reported it as a bug yet it's not likely, and I'm not sure I want to try to explain phase days on the normal wiki. I'll yeet it onto the Data/crops page on the modding part. Atravita (talk) 18:56, 29 November 2023 (UTC)
I still get confused and try to add quality fertilizer to sprouted plants, so no worries. The fact that the wiki doesn't have any information about what speed-gro fertilizers should do when applied after the seed sprouts means that no one would know if it was a bug or not. If CA changes the behavior for v1.6, then we can re-evaluate what to put on the wiki. For now, just the vast amount of information it would require to show the effect of 3 types of speed-gro on 60-70 crops at each stage of growth is out of scope for me.
I also have to caution anyone else reading this that the Crop Growth Calendars page was created experientially, i.e., I created a save file and grew each crop, took copious screenshots, and recorded the data. For whatever reason, it happens to conflict with the data that several past editors have compiled based on running the game code. Please keep that in mind if you are considering taking on the project of providing data about the reduction in growth days for each crop! Thanks, Atra, and thanks to all reading this! margotbean (talk) 20:00, 29 November 2023 (UTC)
Spoilers
This page needs a 1.6 Spoiler warning, as it mentions the Desert Festival. J.Bird (talk) 15:54, 28 March 2024 (UTC)
According to Help:Editing, we don't add spoilers to pages where 1.6 very minimally changes the content. Spoiler tags are left to pages about something introduced in 1.6 and pages where the 1.6 update significantly modifies it. User314159 (talk) 16:10, 28 March 2024 (UTC)
Category: Talk pages