Jump to navigation
Jump to search
This talk page is for discussing Weather.
Sign and date your posts by typing four tildes (~~~~).
Put new text below old text.
Be polite.
Assume good faith.
Don't delete discussions.
Green rain standalone page?
Should we make Green Rain a separate page? This section has had a lot of info now, and I can see much info to be added. Such as NPCs routine, weeds (and their spawn rule), and many images related. --Ethan (talk) 02:47, 10 April 2024 (UTC)
Images? NO screenshots, please. Otherwise, yes, a standalone page seems like a good idea. margotbean (talk) 19:05, 10 April 2024 (UTC)
More information is needed on Green Rain Trees reverting to their original form after the rain is over. The section said that all trees reverted back, but I have 5 trees on my farm, 2 in the forest, and 1 on the mountain that stayed Green Rain Trees after the event. I edited the section to reflect this but I feel like it's very vague still. --Agf (talk) 15:53, 18 April 2024 (UTC)
These seem to have all reverted back at the end of the year. Feel like we're really missing some info here still. Agf (talk) 00:43, 1 May 2024 (UTC)
Can someone replicate this? Robin was still working on a building I had her working on in year 1, instead of hiding in the basement. I want to make sure it wasn't a glitch before editing the page. Assassin's Den (talk) 16:36, 19 April 2024 (UTC)
Green rain and entering buildings
On the wiki page right now, it says "Buildings accessible by the player can be entered at any time of day, regardless of their usual hours, and some bedrooms will be accessible without heart requirements."
I'm currently playing my first time with Green Rain during Year 1, and I'm not able to enter Marnie's Ranch due to it being outside their usual hours. Also no one's bedrooms I checked allowed me in, but I didn't exactly take notes on what I checked and what I didn't. Has this perhaps been something changed by patches, or was the information just not wholly accurate? --Yordbaer (talk) 19:07, 11 May 2024 (UTC)
Category: Talk pages