Jump to navigation
Jump to search
This talk page is for discussing Villagers.
Sign and date your posts by typing four tildes (~~~~).
Put new text below old text.
Be polite.
Assume good faith.
Don't delete discussions.
Contents
1 Ginger Island
2 New NPC Non-Giftable.
3 Villager quotes for Night Market
4 New Loved gift?
Ginger Island
Hello!
So with the new mechanic of random villagers going to Ginger Island when the beach resort is built (and open) that kind of messes up the daily schedules a bit (and makes it inconsistent with what the wiki currently has). I am wondering if anyone has a way to easily figure out if there's a pattern for when people visit (that way they can be put under "deviations" for everyone). Also for most of the villagers they have unique dialogue when they are on the island, but that's not in any of the NPC pages, so I'd appreciate it if people helped me with that (because I don't think I can gather that information alone).
I am aware that this is not a request to improve this page specifically, but it affects so many villagers' pages that I think making a request here is necessary.
User314159 (talk) 20:53, 3 October 2021 (UTC)
New NPC Non-Giftable.
The Dwarf within the Volcano on Ginger Island has not been added to this page. The player can interact with them as you would the Dwarf in the Mines. Although you cannot give them a gift. KnightOfFluidity (talk) 19:58, 13 March 2022 (UTC)
I think the volcano dwarf fits with the Traveling Merchant and Island Trader more than the Dwarf in the mines, since there is no dialog portrait for the volcano dwarf, only the shop interface. margotbean (talk) 20:56, 13 March 2022 (UTC)
Villager quotes for Night Market
This has nothing to do with this page, but since of the page called Haley being the only page having a Night Market quote made me do other Villager pages to get their quotes. The way I got these quotes was to go on YouTube and find a video for the Night Market. 9000 (talk) 9:04, 14 July 2022 (UTC)
New Loved gift?
I accidentally gifted Caroline, a piece of wood, like plain wood that you use in crafting and she replied with the message that you usually get if you give her something that she loves. Is this a bug? Or new love? Paperthinspoons (talk) 08:38, 1 February 2025 (UTC)
This is a bug on the switch version. There's been many edits of people adding new loved gifts because of it, pretty sad. Myirlname (talk) 08:41, 1 February 2025 (UTC)
Oh! Good to know. Thanks! Paperthinspoons (talk) 09:33, 1 February 2025 (UTC)
Category: Talk pages