Jump to navigation
Jump to search
This talk page is for discussing Bait.
Sign and date your posts by typing four tildes (~~~~).
Put new text below old text.
Be polite.
Assume good faith.
Don't delete discussions.
name for "(fish name) bait"
should we really call this new bait from bait maker as "fish bait"? this might become confusing because there's normal "bait", which is also used for fishing. we could probably call it "targeted bait" like how it's mentioned in the bait maker description, unless it has a name in the code. Sooji gooji (talk) 14:06, 30 March 2024 (UTC)
The name in the code is "Bait." So yeah, the exact name we will use for this isn't set in stone, as I don't think we should call it "Bait" again. User314159 (talk) 15:40, 30 March 2024 (UTC)
Actually, the object name for "(fish name) bait" in the game code is "SpecificBait." So I think we should call the class of bait obtained from the Bait Maker as "Specific Bait." Although I think "Targeted Bait" sounds much better. User314159 (talk) 16:47, 30 March 2024 (UTC)
Add separate page for Targeted Bait?
Should we make a separate page for Targeted Bait? It can be gifted and be used for dyeing in tailoring, and I don't think that info should be added to the general Bait page. Also, it feels weird to add that stuff to the Bait Maker page, since most other Refining Equipment pages don't have that. Bluestblur (talk) 21:03, 11 April 2024 (UTC)
I left it on this page because "Targeted Bait" is referred to as "Bait" in Objects.xnb and as "SpecificBait" in its item ID (and it's referred to as "Targeted Bait" in the Bait Maker description and in some parts of the game code). So there are several names we could've given it, hence why I didn't put it on its own page yet until we came to a consensus on what to name it. However, since pretty much everybody refers to this as Targeted Bait, I think we can create the page without worry that we will need to change the name. I will set that up right now. User314159 (talk) 21:39, 11 April 2024 (UTC)
I think it should be okay to use Targeted Bait instead of "Specific Bait" - for other items like "Dried Fruit" or "Smoked Fish", we have the game's Collections tab name to use for the general category of items (thinking of different languages here). Since this isn't a part of any collection, there's no unified item name for the bait. Thanks for making the new page! Bluestblur (talk) 22:02, 11 April 2024 (UTC)
Category: Talk pages