Jump to navigation
Jump to search
This talk page is for discussing Community Center.
Sign and date your posts by typing four tildes (~~~~).
Put new text below old text.
Be polite.
Assume good faith.
Don't delete discussions.
The section of this page about the “Let’s be reasonable.” choice in the Community Centre completion cutscene reads the words “Joja Mart” which should be changed to “JojaMart” without a space. Also, the section on the cutscene states that Morris is the owner of JojaMart. He is not. This should be changed. - The Stardew Capitalist Account, 28 Dec. 2022, 16:03 GMT
Done, thanks! margotbean (talk) 16:59, 28 December 2022 (UTC)
Interior Questions
Should we get an image for the interior pre-restoration? Also, is it just me or does the image for the restored interior look a bit grainy? Maybe worth replacing... Blushock (talk) 14:07, 17 January 2023 (UTC)
The idea of uploading another ~500KB image always gives me pause. The existing image doesn't seem grainy to me in Chrome or Firefox. margotbean (talk) 19:51, 17 January 2023 (UTC)
Re: Trivia
The last line of trivia (regarding entering Pelican Town after midnight) is vague. I tested this by completing the Community Centre and reentering Pelican Town after midnight the same day, and it did not work. If someone else can confirm that you cannot trigger the cutscene the same day in this manner, I will fix this line. Tyris776 (talk) 00:50, 29 January 2024 (UTC)
You cannot trigger the cutscene until the next sunny day after completing all bundles. So, it doesn't matter what time of day you try to test, if it's the same day, it won't trigger.
I tested, and found that after meeting the required condition of waiting at least one day, the community center cutscene played at 12:10am, in the dark, with Jas jumping rope and Marnie doing her happy dance. So, the trivia item is valid. margotbean (talk) 16:22, 29 January 2024 (UTC)
I woke up today thinking about this trivia item. Why mention midnight if not implying that the cutscene can be triggered the same day? Meaning, after midnight in the real world, it's technically the next day, but in Stardew Valley, it's the same day until the player either goes to bed or the clock hits 2am.
So, I will rework the trivia item to be more generic, and remove the implication that it can be triggered the same day after midnight. Thanks for your comment, and I'm sorry it took me a night's sleep to get what you were saying. margotbean (talk) 16:53, 30 January 2024 (UTC)
Category: Talk pages