Jump to navigation
Jump to search
This talk page is for discussing Museum.
Sign and date your posts by typing four tildes (~~~~).
Put new text below old text.
Be polite.
Assume good faith.
Don't delete discussions.
Contents
1 Suggested addition to differentiate donated vs not
2 Early information
3 Bug when donating the last item to the Museum
4 Not being able to Trash Rewards from Gunther
Suggested addition to differentiate donated vs not
The following seems undocumented in-context as related to the Museum's functioning. If there's consensus this is appropriate for in-context for learning and documentation, I propose adding something to the following effect:
If an item has not yet been donated, its description in inventory or storage says: "Gunther can tell you more about this if you donate it to the museum".
Jaws (talk) 00:41, 21 September 2021 (UTC)
Added, thank you! margotbean (talk) 18:21, 21 September 2021 (UTC)
Early information
I recently noticed a bug: before I donate an item to a museum, that item is in my inventory, it gives me information about what we will learn about the item after I donate it to the museum without donation. Alyasinsalehi7 (talk) 13:09, 1 August 2023 (UTC)
I tested in v1.5 and found that you can see information about minerals/artifacts on the collections tab before donating them to the museum, but not while looking at them in inventory. I'll update the page. If you find that you can see information about the item in inventory on the inventory screen of the menu before donating it, then you should report the bug on the official forums. Thanks! margotbean (talk) 20:41, 1 August 2023 (UTC)
Bug when donating the last item to the Museum
Since we were playing months ago and we ended up finishing the Museum collection, the last item we needed to collect was a Golden Mask, which is an item that is very rare, but when we donated the Golden Mask, we could not pick up the Stardrop reward, when we talked to Gunther after donating the Golden Mask, he ended up saying that we did not have anything to donate and he suggested to do more treasure hunting, without giving us the Stardrop, which made us upset, this has to be a bug, remember we play on an Xbox, so it is not the most recent up-to-date version. 9000 (talk) 8:38, 4 November 2023 (UTC)
Please report bugs on the official forums; the developers do not monitor the wiki for bugs, so they won't be verified or fixed if reported on the wiki. margotbean (talk) 17:50, 4 November 2023 (UTC)
Not being able to Trash Rewards from Gunther
In the Museum, you can gather rewards from Gunther after donating enough Minerals or Artifacts to the Museum, when it comes to the Rewards, The Player cannot Trash them. You can trash the items you're donating, but not the Rewards. 9000 (talk) 07:13, 21 January 2024 (UTC)
Normally I would say to report this as a bug, but the behavior is changing in v1.6, so it would be wise to wait and report it when v1.6 releases. margotbean (talk) 19:08, 21 January 2024 (UTC)
Category: Talk pages