Jump to navigation
Jump to search
This talk page is for discussing Crafting.
Sign and date your posts by typing four tildes (~~~~).
Put new text below old text.
Be polite.
Assume good faith.
Don't delete discussions.
Contents
1 Crafting every item
2 Maps
3 Skill Links
4 Edible Items
5 Beach Villager Path Risk
6 Wild seeds destroying tilled soil
7 Bombs Pages
8 Requirements for advanced machines
9 Beach Villager Path Risk redux
10 Crafted goods outside the farm in 1.6
11 Missing Details in Crafting Page for 1.6 Update!
Crafting every item
I am working on a tally of what you need to craft one of every item for my own use, and I thought that maybe I should post it to the crafting page, similar to how the cooking page has a list of all ingredients needed to cook one of every recipe. I'd like to hear others' thoughts on this. Swagmaster (talk) 02:16, 24 February 2021 (UTC)
That sounds like a good idea! I don't really know what else to say to that :P - PointlessSerpent (talk) 14:47, 24 February 2021 (UTC)
I have a page in my user space like that: User:Margotbean/IngredientsShortList. It takes a full page, so I wouldn't want to add it to the crafting page. A separate page, with a link on the main page would be a better solution. margotbean (talk) 21:03, 24 February 2021 (UTC)
Maps
The Railroad map on the Worm Bin page is in need of an update. --Unsigned comment by Gp54 (talk) 04:37, 26 February 2021 (UTC)
Skill Links
The skill links on this page are a bit inconsistent, as some of them go directly to the related pages and the others go to the corresponding section of the Skills page. I think it should be one or the other for the whole page but which one? Js Wizard (talk) 19:14, 30 March 2021 (UTC)
main pages because if you are crafting you don't care about professions at that point, you wanna know about what that skill is, the experience gain, etc. so it should all go to the main page (e.g. someone wants to craft Iridium band the combat requirement should link to [[Combat]] and not [[Skills#Combat]] imo Dubesor (talk) 19:28, 30 March 2021 (UTC)
If the links go to the appropriate section of Skills, then translators have an easier time translating them, since Skills is usually created before any of the individual skills pages are. margotbean (talk) 19:54, 30 March 2021 (UTC)
Good point, and it is likely that Skills was created first in the English wiki too, so it would make sense for links to generally point to the first created content. Js Wizard (talk) 21:02, 30 March 2021 (UTC)
True but the sections in Skills do seem to contain the kind of information in which they would be most interested as well, namely how to level up in the skill and what the skill unlocks at each level. Professions are just part of the same table as the crafting unlocks, which is in both the sections of Skills and the main articles. Also, the extra information in the main articles seems to be more about the activities related to the skill and not specifically about experience and leveling up (which should be the focus for the crafting recipes). It does have some more specifics in some cases as far as amounts of experience and whatnot, but the sections in Skills do have links to the main articles so users can always use those if they want more information. Js Wizard (talk) 21:02, 30 March 2021 (UTC)
Edible Items
I've only confirmed this for Life Elixir, but I'm guessing that for each item in the Edible Items list, despite being created via crafting and not cooking, that once created the game then classifies them as 'Cooking'. Offhand I'm guessing each of these items should be included in [[Category:Cooking]] or somehow otherwise be discernable as ultimately Cooking items. Jankyupeblik (talk) 20:59, 8 May 2021 (UTC)
The classification is an artifact of the way ObjectInformation.xnb uses categories. To add it to the wiki would be confusing, and we have Category:Recipes to take care of the oddball cases like this. margotbean (talk) 21:04, 8 May 2021 (UTC)
Beach Villager Path Risk
Hopefully this is the right place to show this issue. The summary is the Moonlight Festival is a risk for placed items since this cutscene loads the base beach map, and the NPCs are standing/walking in a bunch of spots that are otherwise marked as safe to put stuff down onto.
The bottom right of the center dock on the beach (the dock with willy's house) isn't completely safe. If you attend the Moonlight Jelly festival, Clint will destroy what's on the bottom right of the dock. For some reason the festival loads the normal beach map when the jelly cutscene occurs. I didn't catch him in the act for this screenshot, but you can see here he walks around that area. The recycling machines I put down there are gone. Also, a few other otherwise safe path spots seem to be at risk in this cutscene. Where the player and their spouse stands plus Kent/Jodi seem to invalidate another couple safe spots, as well as Sam at the left and Sebastian on the far left (he's barely pictured but he's there).
I'll see about showing this on the villager-path imgur or something. If it's appropriate, I think a warning about this cutscene may be worth mentioning somewhere, or the original image being edited to account for this cutscene. I think this event is the only real risk for the current safe dock spots so maybe the former's the best option.
AGuyNamedGuy (talk) 20:18, 16 August 2021 (UTC)
I agree, this needs to be noted somehow/somewhere on the page. Ideally, someone would create a new version of File:Pathing-Beach.png and upload it. Until then, I will make a note on the page. Thanks for pointing this out! I had noticed some oddities during the festival with placed crab pots disappearing and then re-appearing, but didn't have time to investigate. margotbean (talk) 20:20, 16 August 2021 (UTC)
Wild seeds destroying tilled soil
A recent change adds "On Ginger Island" to the start of the sentence "On Ginger Island, growing seasonal wild seeds will often destroy the tilled soil (and fertilizer), leaving untilled soil in their place after harvest." Is it not the case that this is true both on and off Ginger Island? I'm pretty sure I remember seeing this happen with wild seeds on the main farm as well. WedgeOfCheese (talk) 20:12, 28 May 2022 (UTC)
Version 1.5.6 fixed this behavior on the main farm, but they forgot to implemnt it on Ginger Island. margotbean (talk) 17:50, 29 May 2022 (UTC)
Bombs Pages
The bait items has a separate page and shares the same "Use" section, but the bombs only takes up one section of Crafting, and the same "Effects" section (if I'm not mistaken) is repeated three times in three pages? (Pages: Bomb, Cherry Bomb and Mega Bomb)
Is it possible to consider optimizing it? Mainly because I found that once the Chinese wiki changed the bomb, all three pages had to be edited, 🤣 Sizau (talk) 20:10, 10 March 2023 (UTC)
Requirements for advanced machines
This would need to be confirmed by other players as either a bug or something which is intentional but not explicit, but I couldn't craft the Geode Crusher and Farm Computer until I fully upgraded my farmhouse. I did the quests, got the money reward, got the letters saying that I had unlocked these items but when I opened the Crafting tab there weren't available (as in they didn't appear). Once I had the final upgrade for the house, I could see them in the tab. Melicent (talk) 10:08, 26 April 2023 (UTC)
I'm able to see the Farm Computer recipe in my menu as soon as I read the letter from Demetrius, and I have a farmhouse that's completely un-upgraded. Now that we know it's a bug, you should report it on the official forums, and be sure to include the platform you're playing on, and any mods you're using. margotbean (talk) 20:58, 9 May 2023 (UTC)
Got it, thank you! Melicent (talk) 12:46, 14 May 2023 (UTC)
Beach Villager Path Risk redux
in v1.6, since villagers no longer destroy objects in their path, what about destructions during festivals? See Crafting#Crafted goods outside the farm, which still mentions what could happen during Dance of the Moonlight Jellies. Giles (talk) 20:07, 22 March 2024 (UTC)
Crafted goods outside the farm in 1.6
There seems to be quite a bit of misinformation going around so I'd to clarify how it actually works in 1.6.
Villagers pathing tries to avoid anything in the location's terrainFeatures collection (see PathFindController::getPreferenceValueForTerrainType) e.g. trees, grass, paths but not any chests, processing machines or furniture (I've heard some details of this may change in 1.6.9, but in any case, villagers won't go too far out of their way to avoid trampling an individual object)
If furniture is blocking a villager's path, they will pause and then start charging, the same as when a player gets in their way (see Character::MovePosition, I think this was a 1.4 or 1.5 change.)
While charging, villagers pass straight through everything.
If a "chest" is blocking a villager's path, it will try to move up to three tiles away. (see Chest::TryMoveToSafePosition) If there are no spots it can move to, it is destroyed and drops its contents (usually wherever the villager came from is an available spot, so this doesn't happen often).
The things the game considers "chests" are Chest, Stone chest, Big chest, Big stone chest, (Mini-fridge), Mini shipping bin, Junimo chest and Hopper
Any other objects or terrain features blocking a villager's path will be destroyed. (See Character::MovePosition and GameLocation::checkDestroyItem)
So the question is what of this info should be on the wiki. My thoughts are below, but I'd like to hear others' opinions before changing anything.
The fact that crafted goods can be placed outside the farm, but they are at some risk of being trampled by villagers should definitely be mentioned on the crafting page at least, if not also on individual pages for machines that the info is useful for.
The fact that things are somewhat safer with a path underneath them should probably also be included.
Some general information about what areas are safe (e.g. Backwoods, southern half of Cindersap) should be included.
Specific maps of exact villager pathing (if anyone's willing to make 1.6 versions) would still be fairly useful even though pathing is more volatile than it used to be.
--Wikonimo (talk) 20:57, 22 July 2024 (UTC)
Thank you for the thorough analysis!
Having just deleted information from as far back as v1.3 from 12 language wikis, I must insist that this information be restricted to the Crafting page. No more transclusions! Maybe (maybe) a link to the Crafting page at the top of a relevant page (i.e., For crafted goods outside the farm, see Crafting#NameOfSection) If someone makes an image gallery of pathing maps, I do not mind adding a link to it, but no more image uploads. margotbean (talk) 22:06, 22 July 2024 (UTC)
Sure, that seems reasonable. --Wikonimo (talk) 08:44, 23 July 2024 (UTC)
So we are clear on the details, starting in 1.6.9, villagers will no longer avoid grass or paths (because they were never supposed to as those aren't "obstacles"). So if we do add information about that, we will need to remember to remove them once 1.6.9 drops. User314159 (talk) 00:14, 23 July 2024 (UTC)
Thanks for the info! In that case I don't think we need to add anything about villagers pathing to avoid stuff. --Wikonimo (talk) 08:44, 23 July 2024 (UTC)
Missing Details in Crafting Page for 1.6 Update!
Recently I've been looking into the new 1.6 crafting recipes and noticed that some of the recipes have been added to the list but weren’t updated in the history section of the crafting page. The missing details include:
Tent Kit: This recipe is not mentioned in the history, though it seems to have been added in version 1.6
Cookout Recipe: This recipe was changed, but the update wasn't reflected in the history either. Ashwin Gauswami (talk) 16:21, 23 September 2024 (UTC)
I've added the tent kit to the history section. The changed requirements for learning the recipes appear on their respective pages (e.g., Foraging). Thanks for your comment! margotbean (talk) 18:00, 24 September 2024 (UTC)
Category: Talk pages