Jump to navigation
Jump to search
This talk page is for discussing Crops.
Sign and date your posts by typing four tildes (~~~~).
Put new text below old text.
Be polite.
Assume good faith.
Don't delete discussions.
Contents
1 Comparison table
2 Calculations
3 XP Per Day
4 1.6 crops to add
Comparison table
Seasonal pages are for seasonal crops. This page can include a table with all crops. It's useful for the greenhouse, ginger island farm, or just an overview of all crops in the game. Kelenius (talk) 20:55, 28 May 2021 (UTC)
The page is too large already, and the information is a duplicate of what's on the seasonal pages. Perhaps you would like to create the table in your user space, meaning create a page called something like "User:Kelenius/Crop_Comparison_Table" and place the table on that page. margotbean (talk) 21:08, 28 May 2021 (UTC)
What if there was a separate page, say "Crops/Comparison", and there was a link to it on the Crops page? Kelenius (talk) 19:05, 29 May 2021 (UTC)
It would still be duplicate info. margotbean (talk) 19:48, 29 May 2021 (UTC)
Should all information about crops be removed from Crops page, then, since it's a duplicate of what's on the individual crop pages? Kelenius (talk) 20:00, 29 May 2021 (UTC)
Ideally, yes, it would be a shorter summary of individual crops that link to each individual crop's page. Unfortunately, it was created first, before the individual pages, and before I came to the wiki. It's now been copied into almost 11 other languages, so abbreviating it would mean hours, perhaps days, of work. margotbean (talk) 20:06, 29 May 2021 (UTC)
I know this is a ways after the discussion ended, but couldn't there be some sort of "under construction" page? FireJarkee (talk) 03:29, 17 November 2021 (UTC)
I don't know if it could answer your expectations, but there is this online Stardew utility called Stardew Profits which is convenient to have an overview on crops and make calculations about what one should buy in which circumstances. It is not referenced in the wiki as far as I know, it could be a good addition. -- Charly (talk) 20:21, 19 November 2021 (UTC)
I find this a very useful tip. I tried to add this link, but that was blocked. :(( Admins, please fix? --Odg (talk) 01:05, 11 December 2021 (UTC)
"Error: This action has been automatically identified as harmful, and therefore disallowed. If you believe your action was constructive, please inform an administrator of what you were trying to do. A brief description of the abuse rule which your action matched is: Adding external links"
Added. margotbean (talk) 01:24, 11 December 2021 (UTC)
👍 --Odg (talk) 22:21, 11 December 2021 (UTC)
I think you should add crops that are in multiple seasons to all the seasons they can be grown. (StarDrop (talk) 16:51, 31 October 2023 (UTC))
Your issue was already addressed in the discussion above. margotbean (talk) 18:27, 31 October 2023 (UTC)
Calculations
I was making a spreadsheet of this in excel for personal use, and I am using math to determine the number of harvests. The formula is Harvests = Round.down((Available days-Initial grow days)/Regrow Days)+1 where Available days is maximum number of days that crop can be grown (ie. 2 seasons = 28*2 = 56 days). With this formula, gold per day comes out to be exact same for Corn as is provided here, however for some other crops (coffee/green bean) it seems the +1 at the end of this formula must be missing for the gold per day to match. I think my formula for number of harvests is correct, as you need to calculate how many regrows there are, and the +1 is there to account for the initial yield (before the regrowing starts). Is this a calculation error, or did I miss something? Slash0 (talk) 16:04, 9 July 2022 (UTC)
The formula was derived from this spreadsheet. I've updated it over the years, but the basic calculation method hasn't changed. I should probably upload the updated version to google docs sometime. margotbean (talk) 16:26, 9 July 2022 (UTC)
It seems you are using basically the same thing I am using, but instead of +1 you just round the number up. This is correct, as long as the number is not a whole number. However, when it is a whole number, it does not have the same effect, as 6 will stay 6, instead of there being 7. This is the case of Green Beans. I drew it out into a table for each day, and you do get 7 harvests (not 6). This means that every regrowing crop that has its last harvest at the last day it is alive has wrong gold per day. This should be fixed. Please don't take this as an offense, I just want to help. Thanks.Slash0 (talk) 16:58, 9 July 2022 (UTC)
No offense taken! No worries. If you look at the Green Bean page, the Crop Growth Calendar shows 6 harvests per season. Perhaps the calculations on the page are correct after all... margotbean (talk) 17:23, 9 July 2022 (UTC)
It seems I have misunderstood. It was my thinking that if I plant Green beans on 1st, harvest will be ready on 10th. This was my mistake. I also wrote a python code to check every possible combination of Initial grow days and Regrow Days up to 112 days (1 year), and it always works, so there should not be any unreleased crop that wont work. My apologies, I did not want to waste your time. Slash0 (talk) 18:32, 9 July 2022 (UTC)
It's no problem at all, I'm glad you figured it out. 👍 margotbean (talk) 18:39, 9 July 2022 (UTC)
Hi margotbean, I was ALSO making a spreadsheet for myself but found a different issue. The season profit on your spreadsheet and the formula listed on this page do not account for seed repurchasing in the case of single-harvest crops. For example, if I were to plant cauliflower, I would have to repurchase the seed each time I want a new plant. I used the formula (total yield*sell price)-(max harvests*seed price)/growing days. The total yield accounts for another thing I noticed missing: plants that yield multiple crops when harvested, like blueberries. I just calculated this using max harvests * yield. Sorry if this isn't how I'm supposed to add to the discussion page, I've never actually had the opportunity to edit a wiki before despite using them since like 2010. Shimblesthefarmer (talk) 17:00, 15 November 2024 (UTC)
XP Per Day
Hello margotbean, I think XP per day is important as it is useful for determining the most efficient crops to level up your farming or foraging skills. There is slight difference to the most profitable crops as XP per day does not consider the price of seeds. I am going to use your spreadsheets to calculate the XP per day, edit on all crops table is on the way. Xyrsis (talk) 09:09, 1 October 2023 (UTC) This is the spreadsheet I used, spreadsheet. Xyrsis (talk) 09:11, 1 October 2023 (UTC) All crops have been added XP per day except for special crops since in the margotbean's spreadsheet there are no calculation, this will probably added later if I have spare time. Xyrsis (talk) 09:15, 1 October 2023 (UTC)
Hello Xyrsis! Thanks for your message regarding these edits. Unfortunately there are a couple of problems. The edits duplicate info that's on the Farming page under "Experience Points", and I think any calculations would be better placed there. But, I also question the validity of the information itself. Garlic shows a higher XP/day than Cauliflower, but it isn't available during year 1. So, how would a user decide what the next best option would be? It would depend on available gold and farming space, as well as a bunch of other factors. You could argue the same for gold per day, and I would agree with you. Unfortunately, those calculations date back to the beginning of the wiki, and removing them after 7 years would constitute a considerable change in content.
The spreadsheet itself is not mine; I have yet to upload an updated one. It's on my "to do" list somewhere, but since the calculations are explained on the page, it can be reproduced by anyone who has the desire to do so.
So, I'm going to revert the edits, and people can discuss the value of comparing XP per day for crops, for potential inclusion in Farming#Experience Points. I'm sorry for the inconvenience, but everyone: discuss! Thanks, margotbean (talk) 18:33, 1 October 2023 (UTC)
First problem. Edit question on duplicate with farming page. We can make it there with similar table like crops, but it would be much more duplicate since you need to redetermine maximum harvest, growing days, etc. I can do it in farming page under farming experience section if you think it needs to be there. Another more reasonable options would be to delete that section from farming page and refer it back to crops page in XP per day section. XP calculation is also not only used in Farming, but also Foraging. This would make another duplicate, you need to make Foraging XP Section.
Second problem, I used your spreadsheet and I assume good faith on your spreadsheet about the numbers and I can reproduce it if needs to be. What you said about garlic vs cauliflower is what makes this XP per day important in itself. Consider your question, I'm a first year farmer so there is no Red Cabbage or Starfruit or Strawberry, my goal it to maximize my farming level up, what would I chose? I look at available crop seed at the time and compare its XP per day, so garlic is therefore eliminated since I dont have the seed, the best next thing of XP per day is for example is cauliflower. I chose the cauliflower.
Another more clear example. It is based on my recent experience. I want to get my farming to level 6. It is already in 18 Summer 1st Year. I cannot grow melon or any other regrow or long days crops since it would be wasting gold, energy and XP. What is the most suitable crops to plant for me to achieve my goal? I have Poppy, Radish, Red Cabbage, Summer Sprangle, Sunflower and Wheat as options. I cross out Red Cabbage since it is not available for me. The best XP per day is Poppy, but it is actually the worst Gold per Day since the seed price is expensive (100G) compared to sell price (140G), but it would served my goal well since XP does not consider seed price, only base sell price. If I want to make middle ground, then I would choose Radish as the second best XP per day but with considerably more Gold per Day. This would greatly help decision making. I chose poppy since I have enough money but not enough energy to water my farm.
I agree with your comment on other factor such as available gold, farming space, etc. This is why it's important as decision making tool, to compare available crops with each other based on these factor. You can also compare XP more cleanly than counting gold since XP is based on the base price and only first product of the harvest, irrelevant of crops quality, fertilizer, etc. It is therefore not subject to huge controversy with the like of most profitable gold producing crops which correlates to probability or farm layout due to Giant Crops.
All in all, I would like to make it possible since there is no XP per day calculation before. Your input would be welcome. Thanks and Happy Farming! Xyrsis (talk) 22:43, 1 October 2023 (UTC)
I think I'm gonna try including it in farming section first to see if there's nothing wrong in that. Xyrsis (talk) 22:48, 1 October 2023 (UTC)
1.6 crops to add
Hi, I'm new and don't know how to format things correctly, so I'll just drop the crops I've seen in 1.6 so far:
Spring: Carrots; takes 3 days to grow. Vegetable.
Fall: Broccoli; takes 8 days to mature, is multi-harvest. Vegetable.
Winter: Powdermelon; takes 7 days to grow. Fruit.
They have unique seed sprites, these brown sacks instead of the nice packets from Pierre's, and Pierre doesn't sell them. The only way I've found of getting them is hoeing the green 'worms'. --Lielac (talk) 13:36, 22 March 2024 (UTC)
Category: Talk pages