Jump to navigation
Jump to search
This talk page is for discussing Fruit Trees.
Sign and date your posts by typing four tildes (~~~~).
Put new text below old text.
Be polite.
Assume good faith.
Don't delete discussions.
Too close to a fruit tree
As for the current GOG Version (1.5.6), you can not plant normal tree seeds inside a 5x5 area around a fruit tree sapling. Voidmaster94 (talk) 18:12, 22 April 2022
I've changed the page and added the behavior to the version history section. Thanks! margotbean (talk) 16:41, 24 April 2022 (UTC)
I don't understand your edit, Margot. What is the nature of the bug? Are we supposed to be able to plant common trees and fruit trees with only one space between? The old statement did not say it correctly, and neither does the revision. Should we be able to plant them this way, fruit tree first then common tree, and also common tree first then fruit tree?
For years we have gone around and around on the wiki, trying to come up with language that clearly describes the common trees and the fruit trees, and to distinguish their differences. I think that's all sorted out, except in this case where we mix the tree types. And the problem lies in the way the bug is being described, because it doesn't make clear what the intended behavior is, and we have not stated that intention for mixed types clearly in any of the article text.
Voidmaster is very clear about what the current game behavior is. But it is not clear what we should expect the behavior to be, and how that current behavior differs from the expectation. Until now, I had concluded that it should be ok to plant a fruit tree and a common tree with one space between, planting to occur in either order. But the behavior described by Voidmaster is different from any described here before, and different from how I remember the game behavior in v1.4 as well. I do not think it worked as you describe in v1.4, and that something has changed in the v1.5.x timeframe. But I am now at a loss to say just what has changed and how. I cannot run v1.4 - I am on Steam. But regardless of my memory, there are key points missing in the current description, and the recent change has altered the whole orientation of existing text and made it imply something else. Giles (talk) 21:45, 25 April 2022 (UTC)
As far as i could observe, it doesn't matter if you plant fruit trees or normal trees first, the 5x5 area around a fruit tree can never contain other trees.--Voidmaster94 (talk) 04:45, 26 April 2022 (UTC)
It seems pretty clear to me, how would you suggest we make it clearer? margotbean (talk) 16:49, 26 April 2022 (UTC)
Well, it seems very unclear to me unless we know what the intended behavior is. Do you know that? I don't. I only have a guess: they should be plantable in either order if the common tree would be outside a 3x3 square around the fruit tree. If you can confirm that, I'll give it a try. Giles (talk) 21:17, 27 April 2022 (UTC)
That's correct, they should be plantable outside of the 3x3 grid of the fruit sapling. But, it already says that in the 2nd paragraph, 2nd sentence: "The 3x3 area must remain clear of objects, flooring, and terrain features (including grass), except for artifact spots; otherwise the tree will not grow." The bug is that a common tree seed isn't being treated as a normal object and can't be planted outside the 3x3 grid, but is instead treated as a fruit tree sapling that must be planted two tiles away. margotbean (talk) 16:41, 28 April 2022 (UTC)
Thanks, Margot. No time to return until now, but that gives me a fresh look. Must say that planting and growing are two different things, so I don't see that things are particularly covered already. Fix coming. Giles (talk) 16:51, 6 May 2022 (UTC)
I am not sure if the edit is 100% correct, as far as i remember, you also can not plant a fruit tree exactly 2 tiles away from a existing common tree, the bug appears no matter if you plant the fruit tree or the common tree first.--Voidmaster94 (talk) 17:21, 6 May 2022 (UTC)
Duplication with each fruit trees article
Hello, Now I noticed that both of this article and each fruit tree article have duplicated explanations. For example, Apple Tree says:
It can only grow in the center of a 3x3 square, each square of which must be kept completely clear of objects, flooring, and terrain features (including grass). The 3x3 grid must not overlap the 3x3 grid of another Fruit Tree.
For each full year after maturing, fruit trees will produce higher quality fruit, up to iridium star quality after three years. Note that the 3x3 square around the tree doesn't have to be kept clear once the tree has fully grown.
If struck by lightning during a storm, a fruit tree will produce Coal for 4 days instead of fruit.
These are common feature of all Fruit Trees, so this Fruit Tree page says:
Each Fruit tree must be planted in the center of a clear 3x3 ground area, except that they may be placed next to a permanent structure (i.e., Farmhouse). "Clear" means free of objects, flooring/paths, and terrain features, but not including grass, Seed Spots and artifact spots. The 3x3 clear planting area also must not overlap the 3x3 area of another fruit tree.
A tree's fruit increases in quality by one star per year of tree age after reaching maturity. Fruit trees will produce silver star fruit after one year, gold after two years, and iridium after three.
However, during storms, fruit trees can be struck by lightning, causing them to become burnt for 4 days. During this time, they will not produce fruit, but will instead produce coal. After the 4 days are up, they will return to normal.
As normal crops' seeds' articles (for example Parsnip Seeds) don't have explanation for common features (but have in Crops page), so I think we could do the same thing against Fruit Tree related articles. I think it would be helpful to make each article much easier to read. Mmtraa7 (talk) 09:52, 17 December 2024 (UTC)
Fruit Trees have special rules for planting, so I don't think it's a bad thing to have the information on all pages. margotbean (talk) 17:19, 17 December 2024 (UTC)
Category: Talk pages