Jump to navigation
Jump to search
This talk page is for discussing Collections.
Sign and date your posts by typing four tildes (~~~~).
Put new text below old text.
Be polite.
Assume good faith.
Don't delete discussions.
Spoiler tag location
Would it be better to move the spoiler tag to the topmost of the page, above the introductory sentence, or keep it right above the TOC? The current layout looks displeasing on desktop, and putting it below the TOC seems to be displeasing on mobile/narrow screens. Celeste (talk) 16:45, 29 March 2021 (UTC)
The spoiler tag is going away as soon as mobile is released, so I don't see this as an issue of concern. margotbean (talk) 16:51, 29 March 2021 (UTC)
Additions required but unable to add them?
The images showing the shipping collection and list of required items below that are correct as of 1.5 so need updating to 1.6.
I opened the edit screen to attempt to add to the table of links so it would include the 1.6 new items, but I can't see a list to edit; instead I see a reference to another "Collections Items Shipped" page or template(?), but I can't find that base page to update the table of items. The image of the third page of the table needs updating to one that includes the 1.6 items

The additions required to the table of links are:
Smoked Fish
Moss
Carrot
Summer Squash
Broccoli
Powder Melon
Mystic Syrup
Raisins
Dried Fruit
Dried Mushrooms
I've encountered the same issue with the fish tab too (not being able to find and update the base page(?) with links). That requires an updated image of the first page of the fish collection and an image of the new second page. It requires links to the:
Goby
Cave Jelly
Sea Jelly
River Jelly
I've encountered the same issue with the cooking tab too. Interestingly the images are updated, but not one link nor the table. It requires a link to:
Moss Soup
CherryLeafy101 (talk) 02:08, 24 March 2024 (UTC)
Those sections are generated by a template, and I will update them in good time. Have patience! margotbean (talk) 02:09, 24 March 2024 (UTC)
Jeffbell (talk) 05:55, 5 May 2024 (UTC)
The 1.6 Items Shipped collections screen no longer has a clam. The items after the last line of the first page get shifted forward.
In 1.6 the Clam **does** appear on the Fish page on the fourth row between the mutant carp and the midnight carp.
Category: Talk pages