Jump to navigation
Jump to search
This talk page is for discussing Friendship.
Sign and date your posts by typing four tildes (~~~~).
Put new text below old text.
Be polite.
Assume good faith.
Don't delete discussions.
Contents
1 Friendship Increases At Festivals
2 Requesting clarification on effect of no-star gift on friendship
3 Half friendship reward for gifts to spouses?
4 Penny suggested beer
5 Foraged Plants as item category
6 Item-specific gift dialogue
7 Universal Neutral Clarification
8 glitch where everything is loved?
9 What is meant by this line?
Friendship Increases At Festivals
The article section for this topic is unchanged since SV v1.4 and does not mention Leo, either to include or exclude him from the lists. So, I would assume he's like Kent, in that he gets no friendship boost from the Luau until we've met him in play, so we have to get to Ginger Island before we can. But is he considered a villager before he's moved to town, before the player has 6 hearts with him? When is he actually eligible for the Luau boost? Giles (talk) 23:08, 10 April 2021 (UTC)
It's same with Sandy until he moves to the mainland: you don't get any friendship if the villager is not in town/at Luau festival. I didn't look in the gamecode but am very sure that I have not gained any friendship when having 5 hearts with Leo (perfect Gouverneur reaction, Iridium goat cheese in soup). I'm not exactly sure if he gets + friendship after moving to the mainland, but I'm quite sure^.^ Botautal (talk) 21:57, 12 April 2021 (UTC)
Thanks, it's a good start. First revision for writing. Giles (talk) 15:48, 13 April 2021 (UTC)
BTW, Leo's response to the Luau (or not) requires yet another definition of what "villager" means. Be careful in the writing, because it's another deviation from the Wiki-standard definition from the categories listed on the Villagers page. Giles (talk) 17:13, 13 April 2021 (UTC)
Requesting clarification on effect of no-star gift on friendship
1)the wiki states that "Note that a no-star loved item always gives more points than an iridium-star liked item." 2)The equation is Event Multiplier × Preference × Quality Multiplier But the equation given seems to show that stared items have a quality Multiplier which gives an additional percentage points (50% in case of Iridium quality item.)
Problem: Point 2 seems to invalidate point 1. Either there is some explanation missing(which we need to add) or we need to remove the Point 1. Tedr (talk) 05:23, 3 November 2021 (UTC)
I have used the Stardew Checkup utility to test this and this is the result.My test NPC is Lewis. He loves Hot pepper(starred item) and glazed yam(no-star item).
output of stardew utility | my note
Lewis: Friendly, 6♥ (1521 pts) -- need 979 more| starting point
Lewis: Friendly, 8♥ (2161 pts) -- need 339 more| result of gifted glazed yam a no-star item received 640 friendship point
Lewis: Friendly, 9♥ (2321 pts) -- need 179 more| result of gifted gold star hot pepper received 800 friendship point.
This seems to prove that statement 1 is false.("Note that a no-star loved item always gives more points than an iridium-star liked item." )
It took me a minute to understand your point, but I see that with Event Multipliers added into the equation, the first statement was false. I've corrected it now. margotbean (talk) 08:10, 3 November 2021 (UTC)
I did not expect this quick response, but thanks. It seems I had a little misunderstanding, and so I had to go and built up an actual table to satisfy my self. So here it is. As english is not my native tongue, I think putting numbers on it made me understand it better and help convey my meaning much clearer. Sorry for the wordy yet unclear description before.Tedr (talk) 13:17, 3 November 2021 (UTC)

Points for gift per quality, preference and Special Day
Quality Loved Liked Neutral Day multiplier
Normal 80 45 20 Normal day
Silver 88 49.5 22 Normal day
Gold 100 56.25 25 Normal day
Iridium 120 67.5 30 Normal day
Normal 400 225 100 Winter Star
Silver 440 247.5 110 Winter Star
Gold 500 281.25 125 Winter Star
Iridium 600 337.5 150 Winter Star
Normal 640 360 160 Birthday
Silver 704 396 176 Birthday
Gold 800 450 200 Birthday
Iridium 960 540 240 Birthday
The quality multiplier is only affected by loved and liked gifts, so neutral gifts will always give the same friendship points no matter its quality. Also, I believe that if a friendship number is a decimal (not a whole number), the friendship points will get truncated down. User314159 (talk) 22:55, 3 November 2021 (UTC)
Half friendship reward for gifts to spouses?
So I found this code from NPC::receiveGift:
if (this.getSpouse() != null && this.getSpouse().Equals(giver)) {
    friendshipChangeMultiplier /= 2f;
}
This is mentioned nowhere in the page. Should this be added? - IBugOne (talk) 09:47, 11 August 2022 (UTC)
A quick test shows the game behavior matches what I read from code. I'll add that to the page. - IBugOne (talk) 10:01, 11 August 2022 (UTC)
Penny suggested beer
After 6 years and thousands of hours of gameplay, I got a dialogue from Penny stating that I could really make Pam happy if I gave her beer. This should be prevented by code in NPC::loadCurrentDialogue(). I was playing Steam v1.5.6 (hotfix #3) with SMAPI, using mods "Content Patcher", "Data Layers", "Debug Mode", "CJB Cheats Menu", "CJB Item Spawner", "Chests Anywhere", and "NPC Map locations". I've never used debug mode, and never changed the default settings.
If anyone else encounters this, please be so kind as to give details! It's such a weird, rare occurrence, I'm not going to add it as a bug, but it does have me curious about how it could happen. Thanks very much,. margotbean (talk) 22:01, 14 January 2023 (UTC)
Foraged Plants as item category
When looking over Leah, Harvey, and Linus's gift preferences, I noticed most townsfolk seem to feel the same way about most foraged plants (the ones specifically classified as Forage, as opposed to Flower or Fruit).
My suggestion would be to change the Forage article from a redirect to Foraging to a list of items classified as Forage, same as Fruits or Vegetables, and instead replace the full lists of foraged plants in gift preferences with "All Foraged Plants (exceptions listed here)" where applicable, same way we do with All Fruits.
You can see how this would change Leah, Harvey, and Linus's articles in the linked diffs. I feel it is much simpler than listing each Forage plant individually. - Starfarmer (talk) 19:25, 14 September 2023 (UTC)
Item-specific gift dialogue
1.6 introduced many unique lines of dialogue for specific gifts. Currently, these quotes are being added to the villager pages in two different ways: at the top of each subsection (love/like/neutral/etc) just after their general response, or in a separate list at the end of the gifting section.
Personally, I prefer putting the unique dialog at the end. The actual list of gift reactions is the most important information, and having a wall of quotes ahead of each table reduces readability. Either way, it could also do with an "expand" wrapper. Scarecrow (talk) 16:35, 3 April 2024 (UTC)
Putting the unique dialogue at the end pretty much ensures nobody is ever going to know it's there because of how hard it is to find, as indicated by, for example, someone accidentally duplicating Shane's unique gift reaction to the Strange Bun yesterday. Furthermore, anyone can easily see the list of gifts for each category from the table which is as clear as day regardless of the content around it. So readability is not reduced. User314159 (talk) 16:42, 3 April 2024 (UTC)
Yes, I agree on that point. Although, I do think if someone is scrolling between one table and another to compare loved/liked gifts, a long list of quotes does get in the way. Which is why I think it's a good idea to put the quotes in an expandable section if the list becomes too long.
Looking at some of the pages now, there don't seem to be as many quotes listed as I remembered. So I guess it's not really a problem right now. Scarecrow (talk) 17:19, 3 April 2024 (UTC)
Universal Neutral Clarification
"Universal_Neutral": "194 216 262 304 815 book_item",
From Data/NPCGiftTastes, in order, these items are Fried Egg, Bread, Wheat, Hops, Tea Leaves, and 26 of 27 Books. Barring any NPC::getGiftTasteForThisItem shenanigans, that leaves 9 items listed on this page as Universal Neutrals which are (perhaps) not universal. These items break up into four categories in Data/Objects.
2 Sell at Pierre's (-17): Sweet Gem Berry & Truffle
2 Sell at Pierre/Marnie (-18): Duck Feather & Wool
4 Sell to Willy (-23): Coral, Nautilus Shell, Roe, Squid Ink
1 Syrup/Misc Artisan Goods (-27): Mystic Syrup
I would guess these items are included in Universal Neutrals as a solution to cluttered Neutral tables. If an item goes unmentioned by Universal or NPC gift tastes, NPC::getGiftTasteForThisItem spits out Neutral. My assumption is the logic goes like this: if there are fewer exceptions (i.e. fewer NPCs who love, hate, like, dislike these 9) than the amount of times it needs referencing (i.e. the NPCs for whom they're neutral by default), then why not make it a rule and simplify however many categories to "All Universal Neutrals."
Is this assumption correct? To clarify why I ask, imagine an NPC who loves Gems (-2). They would only like Diamond (72) because a Universal Item ID taste overrides NPC Category taste. So, do these nine items act like Diamond by some shenanigans or are they listed as Universal Neutrals because they are commonly-neutral-and-hard-to-organize-items? If I've missed something in the code (perhaps related to edibility and price), I would be very interested to know. If I'm correct, then some kind of distinction on the page would be appreciated. I'd be more than happy to provide suggestions if desired. Thank you for your time. Puppershuffle (talk) 01:48, 23 June 2024 (UTC)
I'm not sure what you're asking, in all honesty. Classification of gifts as universals on the wiki started with the code, but it was looked over by a human, and if an item happens to be hated by everyone (or neutral to everyone), then it's classified as a universal on the wiki. So, you are correct in thinking that if a majority of NPCs happen to feel neutral towards an item, it's classified as a universal with exceptions on the wiki, without regard to whatever hoops the code jumps through.
The gifting code has been rewritten several times, and I think it's still incredibly obfuscated. But it works the way ConcernedApe wants it to. There's no rhyme or reason, except what CA wanted gift tastes to be.
I hope this helps somewhat. Please feel free to comment back if you want to clarify further! margotbean (talk) 07:21, 23 June 2024 (UTC)
Thank you for the very quick response! And apologies for my lack of clarity in my first post. To help clarify, the following is a very rough sketch of the distinction I mentioned for Universal Neutrals. (Addition in italics):
This is a list of items that will elicit a neutral response from the villagers, and give 20 points toward friendship. There are some exceptions. The leftmost list, including Books, are true universals (i.e. stored in the game files).
All Books (Except the Price Catalogue, which is disliked.)
Bread
Fried Egg
Hops
Wheat
Tea Leaves
Coral
Duck Feather
Mystic Syrup
Nautilus Shell
Roe
Squid Ink
Sweet Gem Berry
Truffle
Wool
Though "true universals" needs explanation, my intention would be to clarify how these 9 items would behave differently with conflicts as described here. But after reading your post, I will concede that this distinction is possibly better noted at Modding:Gift_taste_data, or somewhere similar, instead of here. This page is meant for players, not modders and it succeeds in communicating a very complex system succinctly so I'm hesitant to add clutter to it. Regardless of whether this change could be implemented here in some form or if it would be better suggested elsewhere, thank you again for your time, I really appreciate it. Puppershuffle (talk) 18:51, 23 June 2024 (UTC)
You're welcome!! Looking over the gift taste code is how I got started on this wiki... Even before there was a modding section, sometime around v1.11, I looked at the gifting code for about 3 weeks trying to understand it. I didn't "get it" until I was able to step through the code. I saw that changing Haley's hate entry to include both item id 74 (Prismatic Shard) and category -2 had the net effect of cancelling each other out, and she loved the Prismatic Shard then. Kind of blew my mind...
That was several versions ago, I don't know if it still works the same. I haven't been able to spend that much time on one piece of code in, well, several years.
I'm not sure if anything written on the wiki could replace all that mental work, but the modding section would be the place to elaborate, if you do find the words to make it more clear. Best of luck!! margotbean (talk) 20:51, 23 June 2024 (UTC)
glitch where everything is loved?
hi!! i'm sorry if I format this wrong this is my first time commenting I think there's currently a glitch on Nintendo switch's Stardew valley, specifically in version 1.6.9.40 I think, which makes it so every single giftable item is loved by every single villager. is there information about this anywhere on the wiki? I can't find any mention of it. thank you!! sorry!!! Francis-Loves-Rasmodius (talk) 18:15, 24 January 2025 (UTC) Francis-Loves-Rasmodius
The wiki isn't the main source of information about bugs, the official forums is the place to report bugs. This particular bug has been reported by several people here: https://forums.stardewvalley.net/threads/every-gift-is-registering-as-a-loved-gift.36355/ We hope for a fix soon! margotbean (talk) 08:21, 25 January 2025 (UTC)
What is meant by this line?
"When you propose marriage, the heart meters of all other marriage candidates convert to the behavior of all other villagers, since none are marriage candidates any longer."
This is false. When you get engaged/married, other romanceable characters' heart meters do not "convert behavior." They continue to have a maximum of 8 hearts unless you give them a bouquet, which unlocks their last two hearts. I tried removing this line and explained that it was inaccurate information, but the change was reverted. This should be removed, as it is causing confusion and spreading misinformation. Unsigned post by SourStrawberry 4 February 2025
I have changed the wording to avoid reference to non-marriage candidates. Please remember to sign your posts with 4 tildes! margotbean (talk) 14:17, 4 February 2025 (UTC)
Category: Talk pages