Jump to navigation
Jump to search
This talk page is for discussing Weapons.
Sign and date your posts by typing four tildes (~~~~).
Put new text below old text.
Be polite.
Assume good faith.
Don't delete discussions.
Weapon Level
Based on discussions on User talk:JaksStrange, we have deduced that the sell-to-Adventure Guild price for several weapons has changed with v1.5. The reason seems to be that the weapon levels have changed. Unfortunately, there is no weapon level set in a data file that can be easily read. In fact, the source of weapon level seems to be a calculation in the game code (a function called getItemLevel), and then the sell price is another calculation based on that level (from MeleeWeapon.cs: weapon level x 100, then divided by 2 = sell price).
The most important thing is that weapon levels and sell prices shown on the page are accurate, but including the changes in a history section is also of some importance. Any research/further info. is welcome!
Including the information in the modding section would be a big plus. margotbean (talk) 14:59, 21 March 2021 (UTC)
My initial assumptions seemed to make sense but it was based from backwards logic where I knew the result and was looking for code that could lead to said result. I now actually don't think the divide by 2 sellprice is correct anymore, due to the fact that when I edited some Weapons on the German wiki I noticed the pre 1.5 weapon levels were much higher than now - e.g. Lava Katana was 15 and Galaxy Sword 26, vs now post 1.5 lvls 10 and 13 respectively. So the mystery is where exactly the change took place and whether itemlevels truly are not "pulled" from somewhere but rather calculated, in which case the calculation must have changed to drastically decrease item levels (and thus sellprice). Dubesor (talk) 20:36, 21 March 2021 (UTC)
the decompiled code was kind of a messy headache to read, but after testing in excel (so much easier than calculating manually!) I could finally decypher a working formula. added it to the page but since I did all the testing in excel on various weapons I am not 100% if I nailed the transition into wiki e.g. bracket placements (maths is hard) Dubesor (talk) 15:54, 28 March 2021 (UTC)
compared 1.4 to 1.5 just now, the calculation changed, which results in pretty much all weapons having lower level and thus lower sellprice (weapon point calculation now factors in speed a bit more, def more, crit multiplier much less, crit chance more, and there was an exception for clubs to decrease points by half) that got removed. And the overall weapon level determination changed from weaponpoints / 5 + 1 to weaponpoints / 7 + 1, so overall all weapon levels decreased (except for type 2 weapons:Hammers/Clubs which GAINED levels) across the board within 1.5, and thus the sellprices decreased (because it's weaponlevel x 50). Dubesor (talk) 20:48, 30 March 2021 (UTC)
New innate enchantments of Weapons
Playing the new update I've noticed some new innate enchantments, two of them being Slime Slayer and Slime Gatherer. Should we add a section here or is this being added elsewhere? Schevve (talk) 23:31, 24 March 2024 (UTC)
Marriage Candidate Weapon Trivia?
I had noticed when I saw leah's whittler in game that it had matched all the stats for the obsidian edge, as it was the weapon I had on me at the time. looking on the other weapon pages I saw that each marriage candidate's weapon matches the stats for another preexisting weapon in the category (haley's also matches for the obsidian edge, daggers seem to match the wicked kris (although abby's is unupdated from 1.1-.5 stats), and all the clubs match the Slammer. would this be notable for weapon trivia/trivia on the relevant weapons' pages? Goldendoodle252 (talk) 02:48, 26 March 2024 (UTC)
Category: Talk pages