Jump to navigation
Jump to search
This talk page is for discussing Furniture.
Sign and date your posts by typing four tildes (~~~~).
Put new text below old text.
Be polite.
Assume good faith.
Don't delete discussions.
Contents
1 Unknown Item
2 Page Revamp
3 Furniture Template Update
4 Sitting on Chairs lets The Player enter a bedroom without having 2 or more hearts with a Villager
5 Link to All 1.6 New Items
6 Wall Hangings
7 Desert Festival Cactis
8 Suggestion
9 Wall Hanging Furniture on the Traveling Cart
10 Freestanding Decorative Plants on the Traveling Cart
11 Formatting revamp
Unknown Item
just loaded onto a very old cheat farm and found 'Cursed P.K. Arcade System'. i don't know what it is, there's nothing about it on this wiki anyone have info? -oxygen
It is an item that exists in the game's data files, but was never actually implemented into the game. The only way to get it is through mods. There are a couple items like this that were never implemented. Squigs44 (talk) 07:15, 7 February 2022 (UTC)
Page Revamp
I'm like to propose standardizing the Furniture page, particularly the wikitables. My suggestion is that each table (with a few exceptions such as "Night Market Paintings", "Movie Posters", "Seasonal Plants", etc) should have the following columns: "Carpenter's Shop", "Traveling Cart", "Furniture Catalogue", and "Other". The "Other" column would include the Oasis, the Casino, the Desert Trader, the Island Trader, Festivals, events, items unique to certain farms, etc. I think a standardization like that would remove the need for most of the information above each table, and it would help clear up some confusing listings. I'd also like to find a way to show all of the Wall Sconce options in the "Lamps & Windows" section. I'm willing to tackle this myself over the next few weeks, but I'd like to open it up to discussion first. Thanks Digresser (talk) 03:06, 16 July 2023 (UTC)
Hello Digresser! That sounds like a fine idea to reduce the number of columns in some tables. The fact that you said it would take "a few weeks" does concern me a bit... are you planning on updating all 12 languages? If so, that would be stupendous!!
Why don't you create the changes in your user space (create a page called "User:Digresser/FurnitureRedo" or somthing similar), and work on it there when you have time. That way, you can work out any problems or bugs before the changes go live, and you can also work at your leisure. margotbean (talk) 14:06, 16 July 2023 (UTC)
Sure, I can do it that way if you'd like. The reason I said "a few weeks" is because I don't have much time available to me, and I was planning on tackling one or two sections whenever I had an hour to spare. Digresser (talk) 03:50, 17 July 2023 (UTC)
Furniture Template Update
I'd like to suggest 2 updates to furniture tables and the furniture article infobox template:
Include furniture size (tile area, e.g., 2x3, 1x1; include for floor/tabletop and wall items)
Include placement behavior (e.g., floor, wall, outside/inside, tabletop)
This information would be especially helpful for players who have yet to buy the furniture catalogue, as it will help them determine if they have the necessary/desired free space to place an individual item before purchasing it.
Please note: I've only played Stardew Valley on mobile (iOS) so far, so am unsure if this information is included in purchase screens on other platforms. It is certainly missing in iOS, though.
--Sigrid (talk) 15:18, 24 October 2023 (UTC)
Sitting on Chairs lets The Player enter a bedroom without having 2 or more hearts with a Villager
In v1.5, a feature was implemented that lets The Player sit on Chairs, meaning you can find ways to exit the map, like you can use a Chair at the entrance of the Secret Woods when the Large Log was still there, without needing a Steel Axe or higher. But in Villager bedrooms, if you have less than 2 hearts with a Villager, you cannot enter their bedroom, even if their door is open, but if the door is open but you don't have the 2 hearts needed, you can place a Chair in front of their door, then sit on the Chair, and then hop off the Chair, you can actually enter the bedroom, Meaning you don't need to have Friendship with Villagers to enter their bedroom. 9000 (talk) 05:00, 26 January 2024 (UTC)
And the poor souls who try it get stuck inside the bedroom and cannot leave. I don't know what the behavior is in version 1.6. margotbean (talk) 20:42, 26 January 2024 (UTC)
Hello Margotbean, if The Player stands in a Villager's way, the Villager will stop moving, then in a few seconds they will get a "..." or a "?" bubble above their head, after this bubble goes, the Villager will walk faster, unless you leave the area it happened, or entering a shop in Town, etc. If a Villager walks through a Crafted item, the Villager will destroy the item. If the Villager walks through a Chair, they will stop when touching it, they will get one of the bubbles above their head and walk faster, but the Chair will not be gone. They will just phase through Chairs without breaking them. Hope this helps! 9000 (talk) 05:27, 27 January 2024 (UTC)
Link to All 1.6 New Items
Here is the link I found to all the new 1.6 Furniture, and every other new items. Please help this pages become up to date, as there are many new image files:
https://mateusaquino.github.io/stardewids/ Emily Romano (talk) 20:20, 2 April 2024 (UTC)
Wall Hangings
The page currently says that "All wall hangings available in the Furniture Catalogue can not also be purchased from the Traveling Cart." I don't think this is accurate? Maybe someone could confirm? Cheese80 (talk) 18:16, 6 May 2024 (UTC)
Desert Festival Cactis
The desert festival random cactis (https://stardewvalleywiki.com/Desert_Festival#Free_Cactus) are not included on this page. Not sure if they should be. --Emky (talk) 13:12, 16 September 2024 (UTC)
Oh, why not? I'll add it to the page, and upload a better image soon™. Thanks for your comment! margotbean (talk) 19:53, 16 September 2024 (UTC)
Suggestion
Add a link to the main page of "floor dividers" in the floor dividers section. - Caviar (talk) 15:30, 6 October 2024 (UTC)
Wall Hanging Furniture on the Traveling Cart
In Wall Hangings section, the explanation says:
"Allwall hangings available in the Furniture Catalogue can not also be purchased from the Traveling Cart."
However, according to each furniture pages, some Wall Hangings (for example, Wallflower Pal or Skull Poster) can be obtained from both of Traveling Cart and Furniture Catalogue. Others (for example Calendar or Decorative Axe) can be obtained only from Furniture Catalogue and Traveling Cart would never sell them.
So I think we have to make consistency on this conflict, but I have no idea which is true (each furniture pages or this Furniture page).
Does anyone know about it or have proper explanation for it?
Mmtraa7 (talk) 09:53, 15 December 2024 (UTC)
At this point I don't know how this inconsistency came to be exactly... but I'm guessing that at some point it was true that no wall hangings (the ones listed on the Furniture page, anyway) could be purchased at the Traveling Cart. The game code specifies a block of numbers that correspond to furniture items, and that block didn't change, so I thought "Great, no changes!" But if new furniture items were added into the middle of that block of numbers... well, then it's a problem for the wiki.
Someone will need to check the code to see which items can show up in the Traveling Cart; until then, perhaps we simply remove from the Furniture page any statement about the Traveling Cart (for wall hangings). Someday I may be able to test the code (and in-game) to get to the bottom of it. margotbean (talk) 17:32, 15 December 2024 (UTC)
I see, thank you! Then, I would delete the sentence in Wall Hanging section, mark it as "stub" and explain what is the matter, for temporary dealling. I wish I could checked the code, but I don't have any coding skill...😢 Mmtraa7 (talk) 05:54, 16 December 2024 (UTC)
Freestanding Decorative Plants on the Traveling Cart
In the Decorative Plants section under "Freestanding Decorative Plants", it says:
All freestanding decorative plants available in the Furniture Catalogue cannot be purchased from the Traveling Cart.
But that isn't true; under the wiki pages of Topiary Tree or Small Plant for example, it says otherwise. Venusmorreu (talk) 02:42, 30 December 2024 (UTC)
This is one of the many reasons the page is "under construction"! margotbean (talk) 23:57, 30 December 2024 (UTC)
Formatting revamp
I think that the formatting is really bad on that page. The first issue is that tons of unneded and obvious info is repeated, like the fact that all catalogue items cost 0G when bought in the catalogue. The second issue is with the user experience - it is really hard to tell at a glance which items are available from a catalogue and which aren't. All in all, it eems like the tables are prioritizing space efficiency over user experience.
So, I decided to remake it, and you can see my finished result here. I didn't know that I was supposed to discuss large formatting changes before making them, so it was reverted 10 hours later. So, this is the discussion thread I was supposed to make. If this is accepted, please revert the deletion of the varius icons I uploaded as well. Myirlname (talk) 23:17, 23 January 2025 (UTC)
On this page, most of the categorical statements about furniture being available from the traveling cart are wrong, so it's best to individually specify which are availble. I've also updated my revamp and you can see it [[User:Myirlname/sandbox/Furniture|here]]. Myirlname (talk) 08:22, 1 February 2025 (UTC)
The formatting on the sandbox page isn't better, it's just different. Both ways of formatting have issues and problems, so we're going to leave it as is. The icons are not coming back, so it would be best if the missing image errors on the page were resolved in any case. If anyone has specific information about what items can be placed outside or what items are sold at the 1.6 Traveling Cart, they can add that information to the existing page. Ideally someone would look at the underlying code, and not add one-offs that they experienced in-game. margotbean (talk) 13:56, 1 February 2025 (UTC)
I'll need more information as to the problems of my design, I'll see if I can improve it. I did look at the underlying code as to what furniture can be bought from the traveling cart, but I didn't look into what can be placed outside. Also, why exactly are the icons "not coming back"? Myirlname (talk) 16:10, 1 February 2025 (UTC)
Oh, and while I have your attention, I've posted a topic on Talk:Stardew Valley Wiki suggesting a wiki discord server since from my experience, communication between editors is better that way, at least much better than talk pages. Please consider it. Myirlname (talk) 16:19, 1 February 2025 (UTC)
Category: Talk pages