Jump to navigation
Jump to search
This talk page is for discussing Pierre's General Store.
Sign and date your posts by typing four tildes (~~~~).
Put new text below old text.
Be polite.
Assume good faith.
Don't delete discussions.
Open on festival days?
Most town shops are closed on days of a festival. I guess I've been assuming it is the same for Pierre's. But I see that the store is open and that business can be transacted during normal hours on the 28th of Summer (at least it can after the Community Center is completed). I haven't checked all the others - I have no simple way to do that. The article simply does not mention festivals, even though it has an Events section describing other items that affect open times. So the article isn't exactly wrong, but it doesn't exactly state how Pierre's differs from the other businesses in town either.
So, what's the whole story? And what should be said about it? Giles (talk) 16:26, 18 August 2022 (UTC)
Shop Schedules and Festivals#Shop Closures state that homes & shops are locked only if the festival starts before 7pm. Two festivals begin later than 7pm, and the pages mention those. (As well as the Night Market exception.) I don't think any of the shops' pages mention festival schedules, just regular schedules. Should we do something about that? margotbean (talk) 18:19, 18 August 2022 (UTC)
Well, Shop Schedules is the main article where the info is right now. But each shop could link to that without calling out all the details. It might be enough for the link text to be "Festival Hours", placed in the infobox under "Open Hours". That would minimize the impact, localize the full details, and keep clutter to a minimum. Giles (talk) 04:20, 19 August 2022 (UTC)
I'd rather have a link to "Shop Schedules" at the top of pages than have to change a template in 12 languages. If you're feeling ambitious, perhaps a "Schedule" or "Open Hours" section could be made on shops' pages, and the link put at the top of that section. margotbean (talk) 16:53, 19 August 2022 (UTC)
Category: Talk pages