Jump to navigation
Jump to search
This talk page is for discussing Greenhouse.
Sign and date your posts by typing four tildes (~~~~).
Put new text below old text.
Be polite.
Assume good faith.
Don't delete discussions.
Optimal Trellis Layout
Because Hops are a contender for most profitable crop, it would be useful to include an optimal trellis layout. I found an arrangement that allows for 90:
There's probably something better, though. The so called "optimal" arrangement suggested on a blog (that the site will not allow me to link to) is only 86. Bladeoflight16 (talk) 19:04, 13 May 2021 (UTC)
Well, let's not worry about what other blogs or wikis say. If you can clean up the image by removing any English text, and getting rid of the green semi-transparent bars, then we might have something. If you can show that the arrangement is optimal, instead of saying "there's probably something better", then we would definitely have something we could add to the page. For now, I'm going to delete the existing images. margotbean (talk) 19:32, 13 May 2021 (UTC)
Not sure what the problem here is. I never intended for those images to be added to the page; I just provided them to demonstrate my findings because trying to describe them in text would be ridiculously unhelpful for others to compare to. I left the sprinkler coverage highlights because it made it easier to see that the weird arrangement does in fact cover all the Hops and made it clear there were some uncovered tiles. And I only mentioned the blog to show what my research on the matter had turned up. I was only trying to start a discussion about the problem to be solved and say it would be a valuable addition to the page. I don't know how you expect other people to compare their own arrangements without being able to see what someone else found. If the inline display is considered bad form for that, fine, I don't have to leave it there, but is a link really causing any harm here? How else can I communicate the best I've found so far for someone with more knowledge about the problem to consider or compare to? This is a discussion page, right? Bladeoflight16 (talk) 00:35, 14 May 2021 (UTC)
Margot already said that if you can "clean up" the image, it can be added to the page. It has not been said that it will be impossible to add this content, also just make sure it’s the best layout. JaksStrange (talk) 01:33, 14 May 2021 (UTC)
Jaks is right, and I spent some time last night playing around with layouts in the greenhouse. I think 90 is the best you can do and still have sprinkler coverage. I started with the optimal layout for kegs in a shed, and worked from there. The best I could do was 91, with 3 crops unwatered.
As for adding the image to the main page -- I understand keeping the green highlights, but the English text should be removed so the image can be shown in all languages. The info in the caption can be placed on the page in an image caption, so it can be translated. And keep in mind that this layout is for keyboard/mouse only, as console and mobile players cannot reach items in corners.
I've placed the image back on this page, so it can be altered and uploaded under the same name, if someone chooses to do so. margotbean (talk) 19:54, 14 May 2021 (UTC)
After looking at this a bit, I can't see where anyone can get as much as 86. True, you can plant and water 90, as in this picture. But you can only harvest 85. Consider the embedded sprinkler in row 8 at the bottom right section. There is no access to the plants immediately north and south of the sprinkler. Likewise for the sprinkler in row 5, and the plant south of the sprinkler in row 2. If that blog is actually right, my hats are off to it, for I cannot outdo your 85.
Nice try, though. If I were to plant Hops in the Greenhouse, I'd probably be looking at convenience of access for harvest as a major consideration. That's something you must do every day once they are mature, and the regularity and length of row you can run down will significantly affect the time it takes to harvest.
My first thought would be this. Place six iridium sprinklers in the Greenhouse according to the normal optimal pattern, in rows 3 and 8. Plant Hops in all available tiles in rows 1,3,4,6,8, and 10, and at one end of rows 2, 5, 7, and 9. That gives you 72 Hops plants. Then choose another crop you can walk through and plant the remaining 44 tiles in that. You're still using all 116 tiles for growth, and you're getting a pretty fine yield of Hops. There are sufficient contenders for "optimal" crops that excellent choices remain for the 44 tiles, and overall production will exceed whatever you do with 85, 86, or 90 tiles. Vary this outline according to taste. Giles (talk) 16:57, 15 May 2021 (UTC)
This is why I don't understand deleting and hiding the images I uploaded. All it did was hinder the discussion. This is the arrangement I had previously uploaded:
(I had to make some dummy edits to bypass the duplication detection, but I don't see any other way of making the image available again.)
Do you see any inaccessible trellis crops in this one? Obviously, this won't work on any platforms without diagonal access.
I don't know. The more variations and complications I think of, the less I'm sure this would be worth doing. You can use pressure nozzles to reduce the sprinkler occupancy, but frankly, if you're going that route, it's probably cheaper and easier to just use Deluxe Retaining Soil and avoid the sprinklers entirely. All of those variations would have different optimal trellis arrangements. (by Bladeoflight16, 18 May 2021)
Not so much lost in the discussion, I think. Much depends on your objective. I would ask, why the concentration on absolutely filling the Greenhouse with Hops in particular? You have shown a maximum of 86 (congratulations), but why waste the other 30 tiles? Plant something else there. You are not limited for maximizing their output either - any chosen crop is possible if only you can move through it. You still grow the full 116 plants that are possible with full watering. Pressure nozzles can increase that to 118 by eliminating two sprinklers on tillable land (with setup effort). Reduction of Hops to an amount lower than 86 (and raising the amount of the other crop) introduces flexibility in the balancing and may increase ease or speed of harvesting. The balance will also alter the number of Kegs that need to be kept busy processing all the produce - surely a factor in considering total revenue and the game time used to make it. The more time you take in the Greenhouse, the less you have for outdoors farm land, or any other activity. You always have to decide on the right balances for your objectives. If you're like me, those also change season to season.
Absolute mathematical maxima are theoretical. To be practical, redefine "maximum" to mean "the most I choose to try this time". Then learn from the experience. You'll discover things you had not thought of before. Just thinking about it won't tell you enough, and may produce headache. Giles (talk) 01:06, 26 May 2021 (UTC)
While it's true you can only harvest 85 in that, if you remove 3 you can harvest all 87, leaving that still the best known. Tiln (talk) 00:15, 3 April 2024 (UTC)
Sprinkler Layout
Should the Quality Sprinkler layout be shifted down by 2 so that it doesn't block tree growth at the top?
Calculatorstore (talk) 15:55, 11 September 2023 (UTC)
The examples on the page are just examples; it's easy enough to flip them around or shift them up or down by x tiles if a player so desires. margotbean (talk) 19:40, 11 September 2023 (UTC)
Category: Talk pages