Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Tapper
Place on a maple, oak, or pine tree and wait for the reservoir to fill with product!
Information
Source Crafting
Season  All
Sell Price Cannot be sold
Crafting
Recipe Source
Foraging (Level 4)
Ingredients
Wood (40)
Copper Bar (2)
This article is about the item. For the profession, see Skills#Foraging.
The Tapper is a type of Refining Equipment that can be placed on a tree to produce Maple Syrup, Oak Resin, Pine Tar, Sap, or Mystic Syrup. It can also be placed on a Mushroom Tree to produce different mushrooms. It can also be placed on a Green Rain Tree (Type 3) to produce Fiddlehead Ferns. Other types of Green Rain Tree cannot be tapped.
When a tree has a Tapper on it, the tree is unable to be directly shaken (by interacting with it). However, if the tree is moss-covered, it will be shaken when the player swings a scythe or weapon on the tree to remove the moss.
The Tapper can be removed from a tree by hitting it once with an axe or pickaxe. This leaves the Tapper intact and able to be reused. If the Tapper is on a tree when it is struck by lightning or hit by an exploding bomb, both the Tapper and its contents are destroyed.
During Winter, tappers placed on Maple Trees, Oak Trees, Pine Trees, Mahogany Trees, or Mystic Trees continue to produce; however since Mushroom Trees and Green Rain Trees (Type 3) turn to stumps in Winter, tappers placed on them produce nothing during that season.
The Tapper cannot be placed on Fruit Trees.
Three Tappers are the reward for completing the Forager's Bundle on the Bulletin Board (Remixed).
Contents
1 Products
2 Types
3 References
4 History
Products
Image Name Description Source Time[1] Sell Price Energy / Health
Maple Syrup A sweet syrup with a unique flavor. Maple Tree
9 Nights
200g
50
22
Oak Resin A sticky, fragrant substance derived from oak sap. Oak Tree
7 Nights
150g Inedible
Pine Tar A pungent substance derived from pine sap. Pine Tree
5 Nights
100g Inedible
3 - 8 Sap A fluid obtained from trees. Mahogany Tree
1 Night
2g
 −2
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Mushroom Tree
Varies
40g
38
17
Red Mushroom A spotted mushroom sometimes found in caves. Mushroom Tree
Varies
75g
 −50
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Mushroom Tree
Varies
250g
125
56
Mystic Syrup A very rare syrup that is said to have magic properties. Mystic Tree
7 Nights
1,000g
500
225
Fiddlehead Fern The young shoots are an edible specialty. Green Rain Tree (Type 3)
2 Nights
90g
25
11
Types
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source
Tapper Place on a maple, oak, or pine tree and wait for the reservoir to fill with product!
Wood (40)
Copper Bar (2)
Foraging Level 4
Heavy Tapper Place on a maple, oak, or pine tree and wait for the reservoir to fill with product! Works twice as fast as a normal tapper.
Hardwood (30)
Radioactive Bar (1)
Qi's Walnut Room for 20
References
↑ See Tree::UpdateTapperProduct in the game code. Tree type indexes can be deduced by looking at Tree::loadTexture and the Content\TerrainFeatures\ folder.
History
1.4: Fixed issue that could leave trees unchoppable if tapper was removed in unusual fashion. Tappers can now be stacked in a player's inventory and in chests.
1.5: Added the Heavy Tapper. Fixed bug where processing time was affected by the time of day. Can now be obtained from the Forager's Bundle.
1.6: Recipe is now learned at Foraging Level 4 instead of Level 3. Mystic Syrup and Fiddlehead Fern are now possible products.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Categories: Craftable itemsBugs fixed in 1.5