Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Telephone
Can be used to check store hours and inventory.
Information
Source Carpenter's Shop for 2,000g
Sell Price Cannot be sold
The Telephone is a piece of equipment that allows players to check store hours and inventory.[1] It can be purchased from the Carpenter's Shop for 2,000g. It may be placed anywhere in Stardew Valley, indoors or out.
Phone calls that can be received include scam phone calls, calls from the bear (from Bear's Knowledge), from Vincent, Lewis, or Pierre, from the hat mouse, or a message in a foreign language.[2]
Calling a merchant does not affect friendship points and does not count as talking to that villager for the day.
The Telephone cannot be used during a Green Rain day.
Contents
1 Outgoing Calls
1.1 Robin
1.2 Clint
1.3 Pierre
1.4 Marnie
1.5 Gus
1.6 Marlon
2 Incoming Calls
3 Bugs
4 References
5 History
Outgoing Calls
Answering Machine portrait
Merchants (or their answering machine) will tell the player their hours for the day; the player can then select additional options depending on the shop. Answering machine messages will vary for days when a merchant is busy, festival days, etc.[3]
Robin
Call Robin to check the hours and stock at the Carpenter's Shop.
Check store inventory
Check house upgrade cost (also applies to cabins)
Check building upgrade costs
Quotes 
Clint
Call Clint to check the hours at the Blacksmith.
Check tool upgrade costs
Note: ore prices cannot be checked by phone.
Quotes 

Pierre
Call Pierre to check the hours and stock at Pierre's General Store.
Check store inventory
Quotes 
Marnie
Call Marnie to check the hours at Marnie's Ranch.
Check livestock prices
Note: supply store cannot be accessed by telephone.
Quotes 
Gus
Call Gus to check the hours at the Stardrop Saloon.
Find out the dish of the day.
Quotes 
Marlon
Call Marlon to use the Item Recovery Service without having to go to the Adventurer's Guild. Marlon's number is only available after completing the Monster Eradication Goal for Magma Sprites and Magma Sparkers.
Quotes 
Incoming Calls
Vincent 
Robocaller 
Pierre 
Lewis 
Hat Mouse 
Foreign 
Bear 
Secret 
Bugs
If the player calls a merchant and checks the store stock while that merchant is away on Ginger Island, the store interface may use the merchant's island portrait.
It is possible to use the phone to call a merchant while inside their own store. They will have no reaction to this.
References
↑ Outgoing call behavior is specified in StardewValley.Game1::ShowTelephoneMenu.
↑ Incoming call behavior is specified in StardewValley.Objects.Phone::CanHearCall.
↑ Quotes are specified in Content\Strings\Characters.xnb.
History
1.5: Introduced.
1.6: The Telephone cannot be used during a Green Rain day.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Category: Special items