Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Tent Kit
Use this to deploy a one-time-use tent for sleeping. Can only be used outdoors.
Information
Source Crafting • Trout Derby • Box in Ginger Island jungle
Sell Price 200g
Crafting
Recipe Source Foraging Level 8
Ingredients
Hardwood (10)
Fiber (25)
Cloth (1)
This page is for tents constructed by the player. For Linus's tent, see Tent.
The Tent Kit is a craftable item that allows the player to construct a tent to sleep in. It can only be used outdoors and is consumed after use. Three Tent Kits are found in a box in the Ginger Island jungle, and one Tent Kit is the first prize obtained from the Trout Derby festival. If a player has already used the Golden Joja Parrot, then Professor Snail will give one Tent Kit as a reward for donating the Mummified Bat to the Island Field Office.
Contents
1 Usage
2 Gifting
3 Bundles
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 Gallery
7 References
8 History
Usage
The player deploys the Tent Kit outdoors by selecting the lower left corner of a 3x2 area. If there is not enough space, the player attempts to use the Tent Kit indoors (e.g. in a mine), or the next day is a festival, then an error message is shown.[1] Otherwise, the Tent Kit deploys, and the player can use the tent just like the bed in the farmhouse. Upon using the tent, the game is saved and the player wakes up at 6am the next day in the same location, the tent itself having disappeared. In Multiplayer, multiple people can use the tent at once.
Tent Kits placed outside that are not used will disappear the next day. Tent Kits will not work if there is a festival occurring at the map the next day.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Tent Kit is not used in any bundles.
Tailoring
Tent Kit is not used in any tailoring. It can be used in dyeing, serving as an orange dye at the dye pots located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane. It can also be used as a brown dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed.
Quests
Tent Kit is not used in any quests.
Gallery
A deployed Tent Kit
The space occupied by a deployed Tent Kit
References
↑ See Object::placementAction in the game code.
History
1.6: Introduced.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Category: Craftable items