Jump to navigation
Jump to search
The Stardrop Saloon
Open Hours: 12:00pm to 12:00am
Occupants:
Gus
“ “Hungry? Thirsty? I've got just the thing!”
— Gus
The Stardrop Saloon is owned by Gus, and is located in the center of Pelican Town. It's a meeting place for many villagers, and hosts a variety of entertainment, including fully playable arcade machines, a jukebox, and a Joja Cola vending machine.
Contents
1 Menu
1.1 Permanent Stock
1.2 Temporary Stock
1.3 Rotating Stock
2 Jukebox
3 Arcade
3.1 Journey of the Prairie King
3.2 Junimo Kart
3.3 Joja Vending Machine
4 Secret
5 Trivia
6 Gallery
7 History
Menu
Gus offers a variety of food and recipes for sale. He also has a rotating supply of cooked dishes.
To shop at the Saloon, interact with the cash register on the counter. It is possible to shop at the register as long as Gus is anywhere behind the counter. When Gus visits Ginger Island, he leaves a cash box on the bar, so the player is still able to make purchases.
Note: The Cookie recipe will be available only for players who have seen Evelyn's 4-heart event but experienced a bug where they have not received the Cookie recipe.
Permanent Stock
Image Name Description Price
Beer Drink in moderation. 400g
Salad A healthy garden salad. 220g
Bread A crusty baguette. 120g
Spaghetti An old favorite. 240g
Pizza It's popular for all the right reasons. 600g
Coffee It smells delicious. This is sure to give you a boost. 300g
Hashbrowns Recipe A recipe to make Hashbrowns 50g
Omelet Recipe A recipe to make Omelet 100g
Pancakes Recipe A recipe to make Pancakes 100g
Bread Recipe A recipe to make Bread 100g
Tortilla Recipe A recipe to make Tortilla 100g
Pizza Recipe A recipe to make Pizza 150g
Maki Roll Recipe A recipe to make Maki Roll 300g
Triple Shot Espresso Recipe A recipe to make Triple Shot Espresso 5,000g
Cookie Recipe A recipe to make Cookie 300g
Temporary Stock
The Saloon will sell an unlimited number of Crab Cakes for 550g each for approximately 4 days after viewing Willy's 6-heart cutscene.
Rotating Stock
Gus offers a random cooked dish every day (sometimes referred to as the "Dish of the Day"). He will have a random number between 1 and 14 of the cooked dish in stock to sell. Shown below is an Expandable table of the dishes that may be offered, and the price that Gus charges for them.
Dish
Expand
Price  
Jukebox
The player can interact with the Jukebox to change the current song. It's possible for the Jukebox to play any music track in the game, as long as the player has heard them. Many of them are soundtracks of seasons, as well as soundtracks from Heart Events, or soundtracks from Festivals.
Arcade
Each of the arcade machines inside the saloon are playable. However, Junimo Kart is initially locked and needs the Skull Key to unlock it.
Journey of the Prairie King
Journey of the Prairie King is an Arcade Shooter with 3 worlds. Beat them all for a special reward.
Junimo Kart
Junimo Kart is an arcade game which is unlocked with the Skull Key. Complete "Progress Mode" for a special reward.
Joja Vending Machine
Next to the Arcade Machines in the Saloon, there is a Joja Vending Machine that dispenses Joja Cola for 75g.
Secret
If Duck Mayonnaise is placed in the partially hidden metal box in the back room, the player will receive the secret ??Pinky Lemon?? statue.
Trivia
Alex's Ten Heart Event takes place in the room in the northwest corner of the saloon.
Gallery
Interior
History
1.01: The error item is no longer in stock at the saloon.
1.3.27: Added crab cakes to temporary stock after Willy's 6-heart cutscene.
1.4: Added Triple Shot Espresso recipe. Removed bread, pizza, salad, and spaghetti from rotating stock. Reduced recipe prices. Added Cookie recipe for sale for players who've seen Evelyn's 4-heart event but didn't get the Cookie recipe.
1.5: The player can now sit on bar stools.
1.6: The exterior of the Saloon has changed; there are now floodlights that illuminate the sign at the front all day and night.
Buildings
Merchants Abandoned House • Adventurer's Guild • Blacksmith • Bookseller • Carpenter's Shop • Casino • Desert Trader • Fish Shop • Giant Stump • Harvey's Clinic • Ice Cream Stand • Island Trader • JojaMart • Marnie's Ranch • Oasis • Pierre's General Store • Qi's Walnut Room • The Stardrop Saloon • Traveling Cart • Volcano Dwarf • Wizard's Tower
Houses 1 River Road • 2 River Road • 1 Willow Lane • 2 Willow Lane • 24 Mountain Road • Elliott's Cabin • Farmhouse • Island Farmhouse • Leah's Cottage • Mayor's Manor • Tent • Trailer • Treehouse
Farm Buildings Farming Barn • Cabin • Coop • Fish Pond • Greenhouse • Mill • Pet Bowl • Shed • Silo • Slime Hutch • Stable • Well
Special Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Gold Clock • Island Obelisk • Junimo Hut • Water Obelisk
Other Buildings Community Center • Dog Pen • Island Field Office • Joja Warehouse • Movie Theater • Museum • Spa • Witch's Hut
Categories: Town LocationsStores