Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Getting
Started The
Player Options Controls Mobile
Controls Health Energy Skills Day
Cycle
The Player refers to the playable character in Stardew Valley.
Contents
1 Character customization
2 Special Keys
3 Notes
4 Exploits
5 See also
6 History
Character customization
The character creation screen.
The following options are available at the beginning of a new game:
Appearance - This includes 24 skin tones, 74 hairstyles, 112 shirts, 4 pants, and 31 accessories. All of them can be used by either gender, with the option to randomize appearance. The player's eye color, hair color, and pants color can also be adjusted using the sliders on the right side. This has no effect on gameplay, can be changed later, and can be augmented with additional shirts and pants, as well as hats, and boots.
Name / Farm Name - These are limited to most of the ASCII printable characters, which are spaces, uppercase and lowercase letters, numbers, and `~!@#$%^&*()-=+[{]}\|;:'",<.>/?_. Although " is in the valid ASCII printable character range, the textbox does not accept this character. Name and Farm Name are sometimes used in dialogues during gameplay. The player's name can be changed later, but not the farm name.
Both fields accept copied text (paste text using Ctrl + v).
The length of the name is determined by the total pixel width, and the allowed maximum is restricted to the width of the textbox.
The letter case used when the name is inputted will not change (e.g., if the name is inputted in all lowercase; the first letter will not be corrected to uppercase).
Animal Preference - This determines the type of pet that arrives in Spring of year 1. There are 10 options; five dogs, five cats.
Favorite Thing - This affects the text displayed after eating a Stardrop. The character limits are the same as the Name / Farm Name text boxes.
Gender - This has minor effects on gameplay and can be changed later.
Characters will use the appropriate pronoun in dialogue.
Restriction to the men's or women's spa entrance. (Note: Alex sometimes works out in the men's locker room.)
It is possible to marry an eligible NPC regardless of gender. In a different-gender marriage, the woman can become pregnant for 14 days (with no effect on speed or movement) and give birth to a child. In a same-gender marriage, children can be adopted.
Female characters will receive letters from Dad, while male characters will receive letters from Mom. There are some differences in the gifts they send.
Special Keys
When entering "Name", "Farm Name", or "Favorite Thing" on the Character Creation menu, certain keys produce special sounds and/or symbols.
Pressing the following keys will produce special sounds.
Pressing < produces a "ding" sound
Pressing $ produces a "plink" sound
Pressing * produces a "stone hit" sound
Pressing = produces a "pop" sound
Pressing + produces a "squish" sound
Pressing the following keys will produce special characters.
Pressing < produces ♡, a heart
Pressing > produces ▷, a right triangular arrow
Pressing @ produces ◁, a left triangular arrow
Pressing $ produces ⌾, a double circle
Pressing * produces 💢, the "anger" symbol common in Japanese media
Pressing = produces ☆, a star
Pressing controller buttons also produces special sounds and/or symbols.
Notes
Entering certain terms as the Favorite Thing triggers an Easter egg.
There are no character traits in Stardew Valley.
Choices in cutscenes and dialogues don't significantly impact the story. They may increase or decrease friendship points, or change a future cutscene or dialogue slightly.
It is possible to befriend most NPCs and there are no mutually exclusive friendships. (Some NPCs like Gunther have no friendship status.)
While NPCs have a breathing animation, the player does not. Instead, the player's eyes blink.
Exploits
Naming the character with a special format allows spawning items whenever an NPC mentions the character by name.
See also
Friendship
Marriage
Skills
History
1.3: Removed item ID naming exploit from all but PC and Mobile versions.
1.4: Added new hairstyles and different pants.
1.5: Added the ability to change name and gender. Added new hairstyles.
1.6: Added 11 new accessories. Added four new pet options (two dogs and two cats).
Category: Playable characters