Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Topaz
Fairly common but still prized for its beauty.
Information
Source
Topaz Node
Gem Node
Dwarvish Sentry (10%)
Fishing
Panning
Sell Price 80g
Gemologist Profession (+30% Sell Price) 104g
Topaz is a type of Mineral that can be obtained from Topaz Nodes and Gem Nodes in The Mines, from panning, or found in Fishing Treasure Chests. It has a 10% chance to be dropped by a slain Dwarvish Sentry in the Volcano Dungeon. It may occasionally be found in a Garbage Can.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Forging
4 Recipes
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Clint •  Dwarf •  Emily
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Demetrius •  Elliott •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leo •  Lewis •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Dislike  Leah •  Linus •  Pierre
Bundles
Topaz is one of the options for the Treasure Hunter's Bundle in the Boiler Room (Remixed).
Forging
Topaz can be used at the Forge to increase the defense of a melee weapon.
Recipes
Topaz is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Topaz is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with Cloth in the feed to create a Shirt. It is a gold dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed. It can be placed in the yellow dye pot at Emily's and Haley's house for use in dyeing.
Quests
Topaz may be randomly requested during any season at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store for a reward of 240g and 150 Friendship points.
Two Topaz may be requested by Catfish in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 3 to 5.
Topaz is requested by Emily as part of her "Rock Rejuvenation" special order.
May be used in the Gem Birds puzzle on Ginger Island.
Three Topaz may be requested by the Raccoon at the Giant Stump as part of his fifth request, or as part of any request starting with the sixth.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Can be requested in a Special Order quest. Can now be used in Forging. Also used in Gem Birds puzzle. Is now an option in the Treasure Hunter's Bundle.
1.6: May now be requested by the Raccoon.
Minerals
Foraged Minerals Earth Crystal • Fire Quartz • Frozen Tear • Quartz
Gems Amethyst • Aquamarine • Diamond • Emerald • Jade • Prismatic Shard • Ruby • Topaz
Geode Minerals Aerinite • Alamite • Baryte • Basalt • Bixite • Calcite • Celestine • Dolomite • Esperite • Fairy Stone • Fire Opal • Fluorapatite • Geminite • Ghost Crystal • Granite • Helvite • Hematite • Jagoite • Jamborite • Jasper • Kyanite • Lemon Stone • Limestone • Lunarite • Malachite • Marble • Mudstone • Nekoite • Neptunite • Obsidian • Ocean Stone • Opal • Orpiment • Petrified Slime • Pyrite • Sandstone • Slate • Soapstone • Star Shards • Thunder Egg • Tigerseye
Geodes Geode • Frozen Geode • Magma Geode • Omni Geode
Category: Gems