Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Training Rod
It's a lot easier to use than other rods, but can only catch basic fish.
Information
Previous Tier: N/A
Next Tier: Bamboo Pole
Cost: 25g
Sold by: Fish Shop
The Training Rod is a special tool used to catch fish. It can be purchased for 25g from Willy's Fish Shop.
Alternatively, on or after Spring 28 Year 1, if the player has been given the Bamboo Pole but has not reached Fishing level 1, entering the farm before 11:30 am on a sunny day will cause Willy to visit and give the player a Training Rod and a fishing lesson which gives them Fishing level 1.
This rod is useful if the player has difficulty with the fishing minigame, as it sets the player's fishing skill equal to level 5 for the purposes of determining how big to make the green bar (136 pixels) if they have not reached level 5 yet. It cannot have bait or tackle attached to it. However, using the Training Rod causes the progress bar to decrease 33% slower compared to other rods, having the same effect as the Trap Bobber.[1]
The Training Rod can catch only basic fish (fish whose difficulty is lower than 50), and all fish caught will be of normal quality. However, fish caught with the Training Rod grant the same XP as with any other fishing rod, and count towards Achievements and the Fish Collection. Treasure chests can also be caught with this rod. The Spawn rate for all eligible fish also increases by 10%.[2]
Contents
1 Fish
2 Notes
3 References
4 History
Fish
The Training Rod can catch the following fish:
Anchovy, Bream, Bullhead, Carp, Chub, Herring, Perch, Rainbow Trout, Red Snapper, Sardine, Sea Cucumber, Shad, Smallmouth Bass, Sunfish, Walleye
Like with other rods, the Training Rod can also catch Trash, Green Algae, White Algae, Seaweed, Sea Jelly, and River Jelly.
Notes
Using the Training Rod in the Mines will only yield Trash, because all normal fishing catches, including Green Algae, White Algae, and Cave Jelly, are excluded from the drop pool.[3]
References
↑ See BobberBar::update in the game code.
↑ See GameLocation::GetGenericFishRequirements in the game code.
↑ See MineShaft::getFish in the game code.
History
1.4: Introduced.
1.6: Fixed bug allowing the Training Rod to catch Woodskip on the Forest Farm, everything in the Submarine ride at the Night Market, fish that can be caught in the Mines, and Legendary Fish. Willy now gives the player a Training Rod if they haven't reached Fishing level 1 by Spring 28.
Tools
Basic Axes • Golden Scythe • Iridium Scythe • Hoes • Pans • Pickaxes • Scythe • Trash Cans • Watering Cans
Fishing Training Rod • Bamboo Pole • Fiberglass Rod • Iridium Rod • Advanced Iridium Rod • Crab Pot
Other Auto-Grabber • Auto-Petter • Hay Hopper • Heater • Incubator • Milk Pail • Ostrich Incubator • Shears
Category: Fishing Poles