Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Treasure Chest
Wow, it's loaded with treasure! This is sure to fetch a good price.
Information
Source
Artifact Trove (3.7%)
SquidFest festival
Fishing Treasure Chest (0.24%)
Secret Note #16
Spook Fish (Fish Pond) (0.3%)
Sell Price 5,000g
For the treasure chests obtainable while fishing, see Fishing#Treasure Chests.
The Treasure Chest is a special item that can be obtained in several ways.
Contents
1 Locations
2 Gifting
3 Bundles
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 Trivia
7 History
Locations
Treasure chests can be found from the following sources:
0.24% chance from a Fishing Treasure Chest after reaching Fishing level 2.
3.7% chance from an Artifact Trove.
0.8% chance from a Mystery Box.
1.57% chance from a Golden Mystery Box.
0.3% chance from a Spook Fish Fish Pond with a population of at least 9.
One after finding Secret Note #16 and digging at the red "X" depicted in the note.
Received as a guaranteed gold tier reward on the 13th for the SquidFest festival.
Randomly obtained from the prize machine in the Mayor's Manor after the player has received 22 prizes.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Dislike  Linus
Bundles
The Treasure Chest is not used in any bundles.
Tailoring
The Treasure Chest is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Pirate Hat. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a yellow dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
The Treasure Chest is not used in any quests.
Trivia
If a Treasure Chest is gifted to Linus, he will not accept the gift and will give it back to the player.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.3.27: Can be obtained after finding Secret Note #16.
1.4: Added Artifact Trove as a source. Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be produced by Fish Ponds.
1.6: Now a prize for the SquidFest festival. Added as possible prize from Mystery Boxes and Golden Mystery Boxes. No longer a universally hated gift; is now disliked by Linus and liked by everyone else. Can now be obtained from the prize machine. Can now be used as decoration in Fish Tanks.
Categories: FishingSpecial items