Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Trilobite
A long extinct relative of the crab.
Information
Artifact Spots:
The Beach (1.7% + 2.3-5%[1])
Cindersap Forest (1.9%)
The Mountain (1.8%)
Monster Drops: N/A
Other Sources:
Bone Node (0.8%)
Sell Price: 50g
The Trilobite is an Artifact that can be found by digging up an Artifact Spot on the Beach, in Cindersap Forest, or in The Mountains, or by mining Bone Nodes at the Ginger Island Dig Site.
Contents
1 Donation
2 Bone Mill
3 Gifting
4 Bundles
5 Recipes
6 Tailoring
7 Quests
8 References
9 History
Donation
Donation of this item contributes to the total count of donations for the Museum.
Bone Mill
The Trilobite can be turned into Quality Fertilizer, Speed-Gro, Deluxe Speed-Gro or Tree Fertilizer in the Bone Mill.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Dwarf •  Penny
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Trilobite is not used in any bundles.
Recipes
Trilobite is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Trilobite can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Excavator Shirt.
Quests
"Fragments of the past": Gunther may make a request on the Special Orders board for 100 of any combination of bone items that must be gathered while the quest is active. You have 7 days to complete the quest. The reward is 3,500g and the Bone Mill recipe.
References
↑ The chance of finding extra items in Artifact Spots in season-dependent. The maximum chance is in summer and fall. In winter, the chance is 50% less; in spring it is 6% less. See Artifact Spot for more information.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.4: Fixed bug that prevented them from being found in artifact spots in Cindersap Forest and The Mountain. Increased chance to find at The Beach. Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Can now be found by mining Bone Nodes at the Ginger Island Dig Site. Can now be turned into Fertilizer in the Bone Mill. Artifacts are now liked by the Dwarf and Penny, disliked by all other NPCs.
Artifacts
Artifacts Amphibian Fossil • Anchor • Ancient Doll • Ancient Drum • Ancient Seed • Ancient Sword • Arrowhead • Bone Flute • Chewing Stick • Chicken Statue • Chipped Amphora • Dinosaur Egg • Dried Starfish • Dwarf Gadget • Dwarf Scroll I • Dwarf Scroll II • Dwarf Scroll III • Dwarf Scroll IV • Dwarvish Helm • Elvish Jewelry • Glass Shards • Golden Mask • Golden Relic • Nautilus Fossil • Ornamental Fan • Palm Fossil • Prehistoric Handaxe • Prehistoric Rib • Prehistoric Scapula • Prehistoric Skull • Prehistoric Tibia • Prehistoric Tool • Prehistoric Vertebra • Rare Disc • Rusty Cog • Rusty Spoon • Rusty Spur • Skeletal Hand • Skeletal Tail • Strange Doll (green) • Strange Doll (yellow) • Trilobite
Category: Artifacts