Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Triple Shot Espresso
It's more potent than regular coffee!
Information
Source
Cooking
Museum donation
Desert Trader
Trout Derby festival
SquidFest festival
Mystery Box
Golden Mystery Box
Buff(s)
Speed (+1)
Buff Duration
4m 12s
Energy / Health
8
3
Sell Price
450g
Qi Seasoning
14
6
675g
Recipe
Recipe Source(s) Stardrop Saloon for 5,000g
Ingredients
Coffee (3)
Triple Shot Espresso is a cooked drink. It is prepared using either the kitchen inside an upgraded farmhouse or a Cookout Kit. Before it can be cooked, the recipe must be purchased from Gus while he's working the bar at the saloon for 5,000g.
Triple Shot Espresso can also be purchased at the Desert Trader in exchange for a Diamond, sometimes at the Stardew Valley Fair for 400, at the Feast of the Winter Star for 2,500g, or at the Traveling Cart for 1,350–2,250g. 1-2 Triple Shot Espresso may occasionally be found in Supply Crates on the Beach Farm if the player upgraded the Farmhouse at least once. Three Triple Shot Espresso is the reward for donating 70 items to the Museum. Wearing a Hot Java Ring gives a 7.5% chance for monsters to drop Triple Shot Espresso when killed. Two Triple Shot Espresso is one of the prizes for the Trout Derby festival. Three Triple Shot Espresso is a guaranteed gold tier reward on the 13th for the SquidFest festival. Three Triple Shot Espresso may be received from opening a Mystery Box or Golden Mystery Box. Five Triple Shot Espresso can be obtained as a prize from the Prize Machine. It is a reward for submitting an Egg Rating of 10-54 to Gil during the Desert Festival.
When consumed, it grants the player +1 Speed for 4m 12s. The speed of the player's horse is also increased. As a drink, its buff stacks with any food buffs (including Speed), but replaces any other drink buffs (i.e., from Coffee, Ginger Ale or Green Tea).
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Recipes
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 Secret
7 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jodi •  Kent •  Leah •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Wizard
Dislike  Krobus •  Willy
Hate  Jas •  Leo •  Vincent
Bundles
Triple Shot Espresso is not used in any bundles.
Recipes
Triple Shot Espresso is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Triple Shot Espresso can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Pour-Over Shirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as an orange dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Triple Shot Espresso is not used in any quests.
Secret
After hatching the first Dinosaur Egg, Demetrius will gift the player a Triple Shot Espresso.
History
1.4: Introduced.
1.4.4: Jas & Vincent now hate it as a gift.
1.5: Can now be prepared using a Cookout Kit. Can now be found in Supply Crates on the Beach Farm. Can now be obtained from the Hot Java Ring.
1.5.4: Added to the rotating stock at the Stardew Valley Fair, replacing Tea Sapling.
1.6: Now one of the prizes from Mystery Boxes, Golden Mystery Boxes, the Trout Derby festival, the SquidFest festival, Desert Festival, and the Prize Machine. Now sometimes sold at the Feast of the Winter Star.
Recipes
Cooking Algae Soup • Artichoke Dip • Autumn's Bounty • Baked Fish • Banana Pudding • Bean Hotpot • Blackberry Cobbler • Blueberry Tart • Bread • Bruschetta • Carp Surprise • Cheese Cauliflower • Chocolate Cake • Chowder • Coleslaw • Complete Breakfast • Cookie • Crab Cakes • Cranberry Candy • Cranberry Sauce • Crispy Bass • Dish O' The Sea • Eggplant Parmesan • Escargot • Farmer's Lunch • Fiddlehead Risotto • Fish Stew • Fish Taco • Fried Calamari • Fried Eel • Fried Egg • Fried Mushroom • Fruit Salad • Glazed Yams • Ginger Ale • Hashbrowns • Ice Cream • Lobster Bisque • Lucky Lunch • Maki Roll • Mango Sticky Rice • Maple Bar • Miner's Treat • Moss Soup • Omelet • Pale Broth • Pancakes • Parsnip Soup • Pepper Poppers • Pink Cake • Pizza • Plum Pudding • Poi • Poppyseed Muffin • Pumpkin Pie • Pumpkin Soup • Radish Salad • Red Plate • Rhubarb Pie • Rice Pudding • Roasted Hazelnuts • Roots Platter • Salad • Salmon Dinner • Sashimi • Seafoam Pudding • Shrimp Cocktail • Spaghetti • Spicy Eel • Squid Ink Ravioli • Stir Fry • Strange Bun • Stuffing • Super Meal • Survival Burger • Tom Kha Soup • Tortilla • Triple Shot Espresso • Tropical Curry • Trout Soup • Vegetable Medley
Crafting Bug Steak • Field Snack • Life Elixir • Oil of Garlic
Categories: RecipesCooking