Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Truffle Oil
A gourmet cooking ingredient.
Information
Source Artisan Goods • Desert Festival • Truffle Crabs • Traveling Cart
Energy / Health
38
17
Sell Prices
Base Artisan (+40%)
1,065g
1,491g
Artisan Goods
Equipment
Oil Maker
Processing Time
360m (6h)
Ingredients
Truffle (1)
Truffle Oil is an Artisan Good made in the Oil Maker from a Truffle, taking 6 hours to produce. It can also be dropped from Truffle Crabs. One may be purchased from Marnie's shop at the Desert Festival for 50 Calico Eggs. Occasionally the Traveling Cart will offer it in her rotating stock.
Despite being listed as "A gourmet cooking ingredient" there are no cooking recipes that use it, but it is used to make the Rain Totem.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Crafting
4 Notes
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Harvey
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Shane •  Willy •  Wizard
Hate  Jas •  Sebastian •  Vincent
Bundles
Truffle Oil is an option for the Artisan Bundle in the Pantry.
Crafting
Truffle Oil is used to make the following items:
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source(s) Sell Price
Rain Totem Activate to greatly increase the chance for rain tomorrow. Consumed on use.
Hardwood (1)
Truffle Oil (1)
Pine Tar (5)
Foraging Level 9
20g
Notes
Without the Artisan Profession, iridium quality truffles are worth more to sell outright rather than turn into oil.
Tailoring
Truffle Oil can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the dyeable Dark Bandana Shirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a yellow dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Mayor Lewis requests Truffle Oil by mail on the 21st of Summer (year 2) in the "Mayor's Need" Quest. The reward is 750g and 1 Friendship heart.
Note that Lewis will send the letter triggering the quest regardless of whether or not the player owns a pig.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.6: Now dropped by Truffle Crabs. Now purchasable through Desert Festival.
Artisan Goods
Bee House Honey
Cask Beer • Cheese • Goat Cheese • Mead • Pale Ale • Wine
Cheese Press Cheese • Goat Cheese
Keg Beer • Coffee • Green Tea • Juice • Mead • Pale Ale • Wine
Loom Cloth
Mayonnaise Machine Dinosaur Mayonnaise • Duck Mayonnaise • Mayonnaise • Void Mayonnaise
Oil Maker Oil • Truffle Oil
Preserves Jar Aged Roe • Caviar • Jellies and Pickles
Fish Smoker Smoked Fish
Dehydrator Dried Mushrooms • Dried Fruit • Raisins
Misc Maple Syrup • Oak Resin • Pine Tar • Mystic Syrup
Category: Artisan Goods