Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Truffle
A gourmet type of mushroom with a unique taste.
Information
Source Pigs • Truffle Crabs
Season  Spring •  Summer •  Fall
XP 7 Foraging XP
Energy / Health
13
5
18
8
23
10
33
14
Sell Price
625g
781g
937g
1,250g
Artisan Sell Prices
Base Artisan (+40%)
1,065g
1,491g
The Truffle is a type of mushroom that can only be spawned by an adult Pig on The Farm when the pig is outside the Barn. Since pigs do not go out of the barn in winter, they spawn no truffles in that season. It can also be dropped from Truffle Crabs. It may also randomly appear at the Traveling Cart for 1,875–3,125g.
Despite being spawned by pigs, truffles are not considered to be animal products, like eggs or milk. They do not receive a price increase from the Rancher profession.
Despite being mushrooms, Truffles technically are also not considered to be foraged items, but give Foraging XP when picked up on the farm. They are not among the items included in the foraging category at the Stardew Valley Fair, nor are they labeled as "Forage" in inventory. They do, however, benefit from the Gatherer and Botanist professions. Truffles and Red Mushroom are also the only mushrooms that cannot be placed into a Dehydrator.
Truffles not gathered on the 28th day of a season disappear on the following morning, the 1st day of the new season.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Artisan Goods
4 Recipes
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Leah
Like  Gus
Neutral  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Hate  Maru
Bundles
Truffle is used in the Chef's Bundle on the Bulletin Board.
Artisan Goods
See also: Animal Products Profitability
Image Name Description Ingredient Equipment Time Energy / Health Sell Price
Truffle Oil A gourmet cooking ingredient.
Truffle (1)
Oil Maker
360m (6 hours)
38
17
1,065g
Recipes
Truffle is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Truffle can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the dyeable Dark Bandana Shirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as an orange dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
The Truffle may be randomly requested during any season at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store for a reward of 1,875g and 150 Friendship points. The Truffle will never be requested unless the player owns a Pig.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Increased value from 500g to 625g.
1.11: Fixed bug where truffles could spawn in the water.
1.2.26: Fixed crash that occurred when a pig tried to spawn a truffle in an area with no space for it.
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.6: Now dropped by Truffle Crabs. Now liked by Gus.
Animals and Produce
Coop Chicken (Egg • Large Egg • Brown Egg • Large Brown Egg) • Dinosaur (Dinosaur Egg) • Duck (Duck Egg • Duck Feather) • Golden Chicken (Golden Egg) • Rabbit (Wool • Rabbit's Foot) • Void Chicken (Void Egg)
Barn Cow (Milk • Large Milk) • Goat (Goat Milk • Large Goat Milk) • Sheep (Wool) • Ostrich (Ostrich Egg) • Pig (Truffle)
Fish Pond Fish (Roe)
Slime Hutch Slimes (Slime • Slime Ball • Slime Egg)
Other Cat • Dog • Horse • Turtle
Categories: ForagingAnimal Products