Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Tulip
The most popular spring flower. Has a very faint sweet smell.
Information
Seed
Tulip Bulb
Growth Time 6 days
Season  Spring
XP 7 Farming XP
Energy / Health
45
20
63
28
81
36
117
52
Sell Prices
Base Tiller (+10%)
30g
37g
45g
60g
33g
40g
49g
66g
Artisan Sell Prices
Base Artisan (+40%)
160g
224g
The Tulip is a flower that can be grown from Tulip Bulbs in 6 days.
If grown within proper range of a Bee House (5 squares in any cardinal direction), a Tulip will cause Tulip Honey to be produced, increasing the honey base value from 100g to 160g.
Tulips can be purchased from the Traveling Cart for 100–1,000g.
Contents
1 Stages
2 Crop Growth Calendar
3 Gifting
4 Bundles
5 Recipes
6 Tailoring
7 Quests
8 Notes
9 History
Stages
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Harvest
1 Day 1 Day 2 Days 2 Day Total: 6 Days
Crop Growth Calendar
Base
Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun
Agriculturist and Speed-Gro Comparison
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Evelyn
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Dislike  Clint •  George •  Sebastian
Bundles
Tulip is one of the options for the Garden Bundle in the Pantry (Remixed).
Recipes
Tulip is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Tulip can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the dyeable Skirt. It can also be used as a red dye in the dye pots, located at Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Tulip is not used in any quests.
Notes
Tulips have an equal chance of being one of five different colors. Tulips of different colors will occupy different slots in inventory or chests. Five colors × four quality levels = 20 possible spaces used.
Due to its relatively small profit margin, it may be better to grow Tulips for aesthetic purposes or to use as gifts than for profit.
Their cheap price, short growing period and reasonable energy restoration rate makes them surprisingly useful as early-game energy source.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Iridium quality is now possible when using Deluxe Fertilizer. Is now an option in the Garden Bundle.
Crops
Spring Blue Jazz • Carrot • Cauliflower • Coffee Bean • Garlic • Green Bean • Kale • Parsnip • Potato • Rhubarb • Strawberry • Tulip • Unmilled Rice
Summer Blueberry • Coffee Bean • Corn • Hops • Hot Pepper • Melon • Poppy • Radish • Red Cabbage • Starfruit • Summer Spangle • Summer Squash • Sunflower • Tomato • Wheat
Fall Amaranth • Artichoke • Beet • Bok Choy • Broccoli • Corn • Cranberries • Eggplant • Fairy Rose • Grape • Pumpkin • Sunflower • Wheat • Yam
Winter Powdermelon
Special Ancient Fruit • Cactus Fruit • Pineapple • Qi Fruit • Sweet Gem Berry • Taro Root • Tea Leaves
Category: Spring crops