Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Unmilled Rice
Rice in its rawest form. Run this through a mill to increase the value.
Information
Seed
Rice Shoot
Growth Time 8 days (6 when irrigated)
Season  Spring
XP 7 Farming XP
Energy / Health
3
1
4
1
5
2
7
3
Sell Prices
Base Tiller (+10%)
30g
37g
45g
60g
33g
40g
49g
66g
Artisan Sell Prices
Base Artisan (+40%)
67g
110g
93g
154g
Unmilled Rice is a vegetable crop that grows from Rice Shoots after 8 days (6 when irrigated). Unmilled Rice is harvested using a Scythe.
Players have the ability to craft Rice from Unmilled Rice by using a Mill. Once placed in the Mill, one Unmilled Rice will make one Rice. Rice will appear in the box on the right side of the Mill the following morning.
Rice Shoots planted in most farm tiles take 8 days to mature. Rice Shoots planted approximately within 3 tiles of a water source (such as a pond or a river) in any direction are considered to be irrigated. Paddies need not be continuous with each other or adjacent to water in order to count as irrigated. Irrigated Rice Shoots mature in 6 days.
Contents
1 Stages
2 Crop Growth Calendar
3 Gifting
4 Bundles
5 Recipes
6 Tailoring
7 Quests
8 Notes
9 References
10 History
Stages
When harvested, each Rice Shoot has a 50/50 chance of giving either one or two Unmilled Rice at farming level 0, or one or three Unmilled Rice at farming level 10 or higher, plus an additional 10% chance of one or more extra rice (1.61 rice on average, or 2.11 at farming level 10+).[1]
Rice Type Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Harvest
Non-Irrigated 1 Day 2 Days 2 Days 3 Days Total: 8 Days
Irrigated 1 Day 1 Day 1 Day 3 Days Total: 6 Days
Crop Growth Calendar
Base Unirrigated
Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun
Base Irrigated
Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun
Agriculturist and Speed-Gro Comparison - Unirrigated
Agriculturist and Speed-Gro Comparison - Irrigated
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Dislike  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Hate  Leo
Bundles
It is not used in any Bundles.
Recipes
Image Name Description Ingredient Equipment Time Sell Price
Rice A basic grain often served under vegetables.
Unmilled Rice (1)
Mill Ready the next morning 100g
Tailoring
Unmilled Rice can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the dyeable Shirt And Belt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as an orange dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Unmilled Rice may be randomly requested in Spring at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store for a reward of 90g and 150 Friendship points.
Notes
If grown from Rice Shoots purchased from Pierre's, it is only profitable to sell gold quality Unmilled Rice directly. With the Tiller Profession, silver quality Unmilled Rice becomes profitable by 1g. In all cases it is profitable to process Unmilled Rice into Rice using a Mill, or Pickles using a Preserves Jar.
The day you harvest an Unmilled Rice from an irrigated tile, the tile retains the irrigation water. Anything you plant there that same day will not need watering.
References
↑ The game randomly selects with equal odds either the minimum harvest value of 1, or the maximum harvest value (which is also 1) + 1 + Farming Level / 10. This is the base number of Unmilled Rice to spawn. It can only be an integer and decimals are ignored, so only farming levels of 10 and above make a difference and add one. After that, the game generates a random number between 0 and 1, and if it is less than 0.1, then yet another Unmilled Rice will spawn. This repeats until the random number generated is greater than or equal to 0.1, at which point the chance for an extra Unmilled Rice ends. This, on average, will give 0.11 extra Unmilled Rice on top of the initial 50/50 chance for one or two extra Unmilled Rice to be produced. Keep in mind that Luck can also double the total amount of extra Unmilled Rice spawned by the above formula.
History
1.4: Introduced.
1.4.2: Gift taste changed to universal dislike.
1.5: Iridium quality is now possible when using Deluxe Fertilizer. Bugfix for Agriculturist stages of growth.
Crops
Spring Blue Jazz • Carrot • Cauliflower • Coffee Bean • Garlic • Green Bean • Kale • Parsnip • Potato • Rhubarb • Strawberry • Tulip • Unmilled Rice
Summer Blueberry • Coffee Bean • Corn • Hops • Hot Pepper • Melon • Poppy • Radish • Red Cabbage • Starfruit • Summer Spangle • Summer Squash • Sunflower • Tomato • Wheat
Fall Amaranth • Artichoke • Beet • Bok Choy • Broccoli • Corn • Cranberries • Eggplant • Fairy Rose • Grape • Pumpkin • Sunflower • Wheat • Yam
Winter Powdermelon
Special Ancient Fruit • Cactus Fruit • Pineapple • Qi Fruit • Sweet Gem Berry • Taro Root • Tea Leaves
Categories: Spring cropsVegetables