Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Vincent
Information
Birthday  Spring 10
Lives In Pelican Town
Address 1 Willow Lane
Family
Jodi (Mother)
Kent (Father)
Sam (Brother)
Marriage No
Clinic Visit  Spring 11
Loved Gifts
Cranberry Candy
Frog Egg
Ginger Ale
Grape
Pink Cake
Snail
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Eight Hearts
6 Quotes
7 Portraits
8 Trivia
9 History
“ “I wanna be just like my big brother when I grow up!”
— Vincent
Vincent is a villager who lives in the southern part of Pelican Town. He's a young boy, and can often be found with his best friend Jas. He looks up to his brother Sam and wants to be just like him when he grows up.
Schedule
On Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday, Vincent and Jas spend the afternoon with Penny being tutored at the museum. During Summer, Vincent is often at the beach.
Vincent won't leave his home on rainy days, unless it's Spring 11, when he visits Harvey's Clinic.
After the Beach Resort on Ginger Island is unlocked, Vincent may randomly spend the day there. After leaving the Island at 6pm, Vincent will immediately go home to bed. Vincent never visits the Resort on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays, Festival days or his checkup day at Harvey's Clinic. Vincent also never visits the Resort without an adult accompanying him.
Shown below are Vincent's schedules prioritized highest to lowest. For example, if it is raining, that schedule overrides all others below it.
Green Rain (Year 1)
Tuesday the 9th and Tuesday the 23rd
Spring 11
Spring 17 (Bus Service Restored)
Desert Festival (As Vendor)
Winter 16
Rain
Summer
Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday
Saturday
Regular Schedule
Relationships
Vincent lives with his mother Jodi and his brother Sam. His father Kent is away at war in Year 1, but returns and lives with the family when he returns in Year 2.
He's often seen alongside his friend Jas, who is the only resident of town close to his age.
Penny takes time to teach both Vincent and Jas at the museum since there's no school nearby. It is implied that Vincent cares about Penny a lot, specifically in a dialogue where he claims he'll marry her one day.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Vincent up to two gifts per week (plus one on his birthday), which will raise or lower his friendship with you. Gifts on his birthday ( 10 Spring) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved, liked, or neutral gifts, Vincent responds
“ “Is that a birthday present? Can I open it now?
Oh, wow! This is exactly what I wanted! Yayayaya!”
For disliked or hated gifts, Vincent responds
“ “A birthday present? Oh... this isn't very fun.”
Love
“ “Wow, thank you so much! This is terrific!”
Frog Egg
“ “*Squish* *squish* … Ewww! Can I have it? Can I have it? Yaaay!”
Stardrop Tea
“ “Wow! It's so sweet! Mmmmm....”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Loves
Cranberry Candy It's sweet enough to mask the bitter fruit. Cooking
Cranberries (1)
Apple (1)
Sugar (1)
Frog Egg Summons a hungry frog companion. Monster drop
Ginger Ale A zesty soda known for its soothing effect on the stomach. Cooking
Ginger (3)
Sugar (1)
Grape A sweet cluster of fruit. Farming - Fall
Foraging - Summer
Pink Cake There's little heart candies on top. Cooking
Melon (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Sugar (1)
Egg (1)
Snail A wide-ranging mollusc that lives in a spiral shell. Crab Pot
Like
“ “For me? Wow, thanks!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes (except Piña Colada, Triple Shot Espresso, Vegetables and Artisan Goods other than Honey, Jelly, & Oil)
All Milk
Coconut A seed of the coconut palm. It has many culinary uses. Foraging - Desert
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Neutral
“ “Thanks!”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals
Dislike
“ “This isn't very fun...”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Clay & Frog Egg)
All Eggs*
All Fruit (except Coconut, Grape, & Fruit Tree Fruit)
All Vegetables (except Hops, Tea Leaves, & Wheat)
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging- The Mines
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Tilling - Winter
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Tilling - Winter
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Hate
“ “Yuck, what is this?”
Any Alcoholic Beverage
“ “*sniff*... what is this? It smells awful... Mommmm!!!!”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Hates (except Snail)
All Artisan Goods (except Honey, Jelly & Oil)
Clay Used in crafting and construction. Tilling
Piña Colada Drink in moderation. The Beach Resort on Ginger Island
Triple Shot Espresso It's more potent than regular coffee! Cooking
Coffee (3)
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
The Brave Little Sapling
Wumbus
Like
N/A
Dislike
It Howls In The Rain
Mysterium
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Love
Jawbreaker
Stardrop Sorbet
Dislike
Black Licorice
Hummus Snack Pack
Jasmine Tea
Joja Cola
JojaCorn
Kale Smoothie
Panzanella Salad
Truffle Popcorn
Like
Everything else
Heart Events
Eight Hearts
After reaching 8 hearts with both Vincent and Jas, enter Cindersap Forest during Spring on a sunny day between 6am and 5pm.
Details 
Quotes
Regular 
Events 
Portraits
Trivia
Ironically, Vincent hates Clay but he may gift it to you at the Feast of the Winter Star.
During the spring onion mastery cutscene, Vincent says "sp...spwing onion", suggesting he is unable to say his R's. This is the only time in the game he speaks like this.
In Vincent’s house, you can find his report card from Penny where it says that "he could make do with a little more studying!"
Vincent will still tell the player that he will marry Penny when he grows up even when the player is married to her.
It is hinted that Vincent is in the second grade as Penny owns a book titled "Teacher's Guidebook: 2nd Grade".
History
1.3.27: Added Eight Heart Event.
1.4.1: Now loves Snails, likes Honey and Jelly, hates Mead.
1.4.4: Now hates Triple Shot Espresso.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Added winter portraits. Now likes all Milk.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs