Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Void Mayonnaise
A thick, black paste that smells like burnt hair.
Information
Source
Artisan Goods
Fishing in Witch's Swamp (5% chance)
Energy / Health
−75
0
Sell Prices
Base Rancher (+20%) Artisan (+40%)
275g
330g
385g
Artisan Goods
Equipment
Mayonnaise Machine
Processing Time
3h
Ingredients
Void Egg (1)
Void Mayonnaise is an Artisan Good made by placing a Void Egg inside the Mayonnaise Machine. It can also be obtained by fishing in the Witch's Swamp if the player does not have one in inventory and the Henchman is guarding the Witch's Hut (5% chance).
Gifting a Void Mayonnaise to the Henchman outside the Witch's Hut will allow players to pass during the quest Goblin Problem.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Recipes
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 Bugs
7 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Krobus
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Void Mayonnaise is not used in any bundles.
Recipes
Image Name Description Ingredients Energy / Health Recipe Source(s) Sell Price
Strange Bun What's inside?
Wheat Flour (1)
Periwinkle (1)
Void Mayonnaise (1)
100
45
Shane (Mail - 7+ )
225g
Tailoring
Void Mayonnaise can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the dyeable Polka Dot Shirt. It can also be used as a red dye in the dye pots, located at Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Void Mayonnaise is required to complete the "Goblin Problem" Quest. One must be gifted to the Henchman guarding the Witch's Hut.
Bugs
While playing local co-op on the switch, if the player or a farmhand has had exhaustion the previous day and consumes a poisonous item that reduces their energy to zero (or below), the game will softlock.
History
1.1: Introduced.
1.4: Removed from Traveling Cart stock. Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.6: Reduced chance of catching Void Mayonnaise from the Witch's Swamp from 25% to 5%.
Artisan Goods
Bee House Honey
Cask Beer • Cheese • Goat Cheese • Mead • Pale Ale • Wine
Cheese Press Cheese • Goat Cheese
Keg Beer • Coffee • Green Tea • Juice • Mead • Pale Ale • Wine
Loom Cloth
Mayonnaise Machine Dinosaur Mayonnaise • Duck Mayonnaise • Mayonnaise • Void Mayonnaise
Oil Maker Oil • Truffle Oil
Preserves Jar Aged Roe • Caviar • Jellies and Pickles
Fish Smoker Smoked Fish
Dehydrator Dried Mushrooms • Dried Fruit • Raisins
Misc Maple Syrup • Oak Resin • Pine Tar • Mystic Syrup
Category: Artisan Goods