Jump to navigation
Jump to search
“ “Decorates the walls of one room.”
For furniture, see Furniture.
For flooring, see Flooring.
Wallpaper is an item that is sold at both Pierre's General Store for 200g and JojaMart for 250g. A new, randomly selected wallpaper is sold each day, from the selection of wallpapers available in the Catalogue (excluding the Greenhouse-styled wallpaper in the final position). Both shops sell the same random wallpaper on the same day.
Wallpapers are single-use and do not stack. They cover the whole room they're placed in and can also be placed on hallway walls between rooms. Wallpapers placed on hallways will only cover their upper area, unless the hallway has been turned into a room with an "open" renovation.
To place a wallpaper on a room, the character must be facing up by its wall. To place a wallpaper on a hallway, the character must be facing one of its sides from the adjacent rooms. In both cases, obstacles like decorations and equipment between the wall and the character can prevent placing the wallpaper.
Contents
1 Catalogue Wallpapers
2 Non-Catalogue Wallpapers
3 Unobtainable Wallpapers
4 Trivia
5 References
6 History
Catalogue Wallpapers
Most wallpapers can be obtained from Catalogues, furniture items which can be interacted with to obtain a selection of wallpaper, flooring, and/or furniture for 0g wherever the object is placed. The wallpaper selection offered in these catalogues is constant, and does not rotate. They do not have unique names, so the tables below list wallpapers available from each catalogue in the order they are shown in-game.
The following wallpapers can be obtained from the Catalogue, a piece of furniture that can be purchased from Pierre's General Store for 30,000g.
Icon Wall Icon Wall Icon Wall Icon Wall Icon Wall Icon Wall
The following wallpaper can also be obtained from the Joja Furniture Catalogue, a catalogue that can be purchased from JojaMart for 25,000g, or occasionally purchased from the Traveling Cart for 30,000g after completing the Community Center. It can also be purchased directly from JojaMart for 20g, separate from its rotating stock.
Icon Wall
The following wallpapers can be obtained from the Junimo Catalogue, a catalogue that can occasionally be purchased from the Traveling Cart for 70,000g after completing the Community Center or Joja Community Development Form.
Icon Wall Icon Wall Icon Wall
The following wallpapers can be obtained from the Retro Catalogue, a catalogue that can occasionally be purchased from the Traveling Cart for 110,000g.
Icon Wall Icon Wall Icon Wall
The following wallpapers can be obtained from the Trash Catalogue, a catalogue that can occasionally be found when rummaging through Garbage Cans.
Icon Wall Icon Wall
The following wallpapers can be obtained from the Wizard Catalogue, a catalogue that can be purchased from Krobus's shop for 150,000g. The brick-styled wallpaper can also be obtained from the Catalogue.
Icon Wall Icon Wall Icon Wall
Non-Catalogue Wallpapers
The wallpapers below are not available from catalogues, and must be obtained individually from the listed source.
Icon Wall Source Icon Wall Source
Purchased from Jas for 20 at the Desert Festival. Purchased from Kent for 20 at the Desert Festival.
Purchased from Marnie for 20 at the Desert Festival. Purchased from Evelyn for 20 at the Desert Festival.
Purchased from Jodi for 20 at the Desert Festival. Purchased from Robin for 20 at the Desert Festival.
Purchased from Leo for 20 at the Desert Festival. Randomly found in Mystery Boxes.
Covers the wall of the Attic house renovation.
Cannot be obtained in item form.
Purchased from Pierre for 500g at the Feast of the Winter Star.
Purchased from Traveling Merchant for 500g at the Festival of Ice.
0.1% chance per night for a Cursed Mannequin to redecorate a nearby wall with this.[1]
Cannot be obtained in item form.
Purchased from the Casino for 10,000.
Purchased from the Casino for 100,000.
Unobtainable Wallpapers
The following wallpapers are unobtainable in ordinary gameplay.
Icon Wall Icon Wall
Trivia
The grass and dirt on wallpaper #80 resembles the grass blocks from the game Minecraft.
References
↑ See Objects/Mannequin::DayUpdate in the game code. Only triggers if the Mannequin doesn't move or change clothes with the farmer. The wall selected is always the nearest wall directly above the Mannequin.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Made all varieties available for sale from Catalogues.
1.2.26: The Prismatic Shard wallpaper exploit can't be used as a universally loved gift.
1.4: Fixed bug allowing wallpaper #108 to be used in an incubator in place of a Dinosaur Egg. Fixed bug allowing wallpaper #75 to be used in place of a Prismatic Shard to obtain the Galaxy Sword.
1.6: Added 26 new wallpaper styles, most of which are not available in the Catalogue. Price at Pierre's increased from 100g to 200g. Pierre's and JojaMart now sell the same random wallpaper on the same day instead of one day apart.
Category: House customization