Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Warp Totem: Mountains
Warp directly to the mountains. Consumed on use.
Information
Source Crafting • Artifact Spot
Sell Price 20g
Recipe
Recipe Source(s) Foraging Level 7
Ingredients
Hardwood (1)
Iron Bar (1)
Stone (25)
The Warp Totem: Mountains is a Warp Totem that transports the player to The Mountain by selecting it in inventory and right-clicking. It can be crafted when the recipe becomes available at Foraging Level 7.
One Warp Totem: Mountains may be received from opening a Mystery Box.
The following Crab Pot fish have a small daily chance to produce one Warp Totem: Mountains in a Fish Pond once the population is 9 or higher: Crayfish, Periwinkle, and Snail. All fish have the same daily chance (7% for population level 9, and 7% for population level 10).
Starting Summer 1 of year 1, there is a 10% chance for a Warp Totem: Mountains to replace Clay in an Artifact Spot.
Contents
1 Destination
2 Gifting
3 Bundles
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 History
Destination
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
The Warp Totem: Mountains is not used in any bundles.
Tailoring
The Warp Totem: Mountains can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Totem Mask. It can be used in dyeing, serving as an orange dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
The Warp Totem: Mountains is not used in any quests.
History
1.4: Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be produced by Fish Ponds.
1.5: Can replace clay in artifact spots.
1.6: Added as possible prize from Mystery Box.
Totems
Warp Totems Warp Totem: Beach • Warp Totem: Desert • Warp Totem: Farm • Warp Totem: Island • Warp Totem: Mountains
Permanent Teleporters Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Island Obelisk • Return Scepter • Water Obelisk
Other Totems Mini-Obelisk • Rain Totem • Treasure Totem
Category: Warp Totems