Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Warp Totem: Farm
Warp directly to your house. Consumed on use.
Information
Source
Crafting
Casino
Crane Game in Movie Theater
The Island Trader
Sell Price 20g
Recipe
Recipe Source(s) Foraging Level 8
Ingredients
Hardwood (1)
Honey (1)
Fiber (20)
The Warp Totem: Farm is a Warp Totem that teleports the player to the farm by selecting it in inventory and right-clicking. It can be crafted when the recipe becomes available at Foraging Level 8.
Contents
1 Other Sources
2 Destination
3 Gifting
4 Bundles
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 History
Other Sources
1-3 Warp Totem: Farm may be received from opening a Mystery Box.
Three Warp Totem: Farm may may be received from opening a Golden Mystery Box.
Warp Totem: Farms can be purchased at the Casino for 1,000 each.
Five Warp Totem: Farms is the reward after donating 80 items to the Museum.
A Warp Totem: Farm can be won from the Crane Game inside the Movie Theater during any season.
A Blobfish Fish Pond has a 1.7-1.9% chance to produce five Warp Totem: Farms if the population is at least 9.
Five Warp Totem: Farms may occasionally be found in treasure rooms in the Skull Cavern.
Starting Summer 1 of year 1 there is a 10% chance for a Warp Totem: Farm to replace Clay in an Artifact Spot.
The Island Trader sells Warp Totem: Farms for 5 Taro Roots.
Three Warp Totem: Farm is one of the prizes from the Trout Derby festival.
Destination
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
The Warp Totem: Farm is not used in any bundles.
Tailoring
The Warp Totem: Farm can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Totem Mask. It can be used in dyeing, serving as an orange dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
The Warp Totem: Farm is not used in any quests.
History
1.4: Can now be obtained from Crane Game in the Movie Theater or in Blobfish Fish Ponds. Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Can now replace clay in artifact spots.
1.6: Changed Casino price from 500 to 1,000. Now one of the prizes from Mystery Box, Golden Mystery Box, and the Trout Derby festival.
Totems
Warp Totems Warp Totem: Beach • Warp Totem: Desert • Warp Totem: Farm • Warp Totem: Island • Warp Totem: Mountains
Permanent Teleporters Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Island Obelisk • Return Scepter • Water Obelisk
Other Totems Mini-Obelisk • Rain Totem • Treasure Totem
Category: Warp Totems