Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Wheat
One of the most widely cultivated grains. Makes a great flour for breads and cakes.
Information
Seed
Wheat Seeds
Growth Time 4 days
Season  Summer •  Fall
XP 6 Farming XP
Energy Inedible
Sell Prices
Base Tiller (+10%)
25g
31g
37g
50g
27g
34g
40g
55g
Artisan Sell Prices
Base Artisan (+40%)
200g
250g
300g
400g
100g
280g
350g
420g
560g
140g
Wheat is a vegetable crop that grows from Wheat Seeds after 4 days. Wheat is harvested using a Scythe or better. Wheat has a 40% chance to also drop hay when harvested with any Scythe.[1]
In addition to Beer, players have the ability to craft Wheat Flour from Wheat by using a Mill. Once placed in the mill, one wheat will make one wheat flour. Wheat flour will appear in the box on the right side of the mill the following morning.
Contents
1 Stages
2 Crop Growth Calendar
3 Multi-Seasonal Crop
4 Gifting
5 Bundles
6 Recipes
7 Artisan Goods
8 Tailoring
9 Quests
10 Tips
11 References
12 History
Stages
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Harvest
1 Day 1 Day 1 Day 1 Day Total: 4 Days
Crop Growth Calendar
Base
Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat Sun
Agriculturist and Speed-Gro Comparison
Multi-Seasonal Crop
Wheat may be planted in both Summer and Fall. There is no difference in its behavior in either season.
If a Wheat plant (of any growth stage) is in the ground on the 28th of Summer, it will continue growing on the 1st of Fall as though nothing had changed. Fertilizer in the ground underneath a Wheat plant on Summer 28 will not disappear on Fall 1. Fully-grown wheat plants may be left unharvested until the 1st of Fall to prevent fertilizer and tilled soil from disappearing.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Neutral  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Ten Wheat are used in the Fodder Bundle on the Bulletin Board.
Recipes
Image Name Description Ingredient Equipment Time Sell Price
Wheat Flour A common cooking ingredient made from crushed wheat seeds.
Wheat (1)
Mill Ready the next morning 50g
Artisan Goods
Wheat may be placed in a Keg to produce Beer. Beer may be aged in Casks to increase its quality.
Image Name Description Ingredient Equipment Time Sell Price
Beer Drink in moderation.
Wheat (1)
Keg 1750 mins (1-2 Days) 200g
Tailoring
Wheat is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the dyeable Crop Tank Top.
Male version:
Female version:
It can be used in dyeing, serving as a yellow dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Wheat may be randomly requested in Summer at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store for a reward of 75g and 150 Friendship points.
A fully-grown and unharvested Wheat is required for Gourmand Frog's puzzle on Ginger Island.
Tips
Since wheat grows quickly and can drop hay, it may be beneficial to devote some farmland to growing it, even if the main focus of the farm is raising animals.
References
↑ See Crop::harvest in the game code.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Made craftable into Wheat Flour using a Mill.
1.4: Added chance to drop hay. Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.5: Iridium quality is now possible when using Deluxe Fertilizer. All ten Wheat for the Fodder Bundle no longer have to be the same quality; Wheat of any quality can be stacked into the bundle slot.
Crops
Spring Blue Jazz • Carrot • Cauliflower • Coffee Bean • Garlic • Green Bean • Kale • Parsnip • Potato • Rhubarb • Strawberry • Tulip • Unmilled Rice
Summer Blueberry • Coffee Bean • Corn • Hops • Hot Pepper • Melon • Poppy • Radish • Red Cabbage • Starfruit • Summer Spangle • Summer Squash • Sunflower • Tomato • Wheat
Fall Amaranth • Artichoke • Beet • Bok Choy • Broccoli • Corn • Cranberries • Eggplant • Fairy Rose • Grape • Pumpkin • Sunflower • Wheat • Yam
Winter Powdermelon
Special Ancient Fruit • Cactus Fruit • Pineapple • Qi Fruit • Sweet Gem Berry • Taro Root • Tea Leaves
Categories: Summer cropsFall cropsVegetablesMulti-Seasonal crops