Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Wild Bait
A unique recipe from Linus that gives you a chance to catch two fish at once.
Information
Source Crafting
Energy Inedible
Sell Price 15g
Crafting
Recipe Source
Linus (4-heart event)
Ingredients
Fiber (10)
Slime (5)
Bug Meat (5)
Produces 5 Wild Bait per craft
Wild Bait is a type of bait that makes it possible to catch two fish at the same time. The chance of two fish being caught at once is equal to 0.25 + Daily Luck / 2.0. It also reduces the delay before a nibble on a fishing rod by 62.5%, making fish bite slightly faster than with standard bait.[1] The chance of catching 2 fish does not apply to Legendary Fish. It can however, catch 2 of the semi-Legendary fish caught from the Extended Family quest line.
Wild Bait can be crafted after being taught the recipe by Linus during his 4-heart cutscene. Once the recipe is known it is also possible to obtain Wild Bait from regular Fishing Treasure Chests and Golden Fishing Treasure Chests. It can also be found in artifact spots on Ginger Island, even before triggering the cutscene with Linus.
Note that catching two fish does not grant double fishing experience points. However, catching two fish while working on a fishing or special order quest counts both fish toward the required total.
Wild Bait cannot be used with the Training Rod or the Bamboo Pole. Only the Fiberglass Rod, the Iridium Rod, and the Advanced Iridium Rod can use bait.
Wild bait can be used in a Crab Pot, where it decreases the chance of catching trash (if the player does not have the Mariner profession) compared to using standard bait and gives a 25% chance to yield double the amount of items. This stacks with the power from The Art O' Crabbing.[2]
Contents
1 Use
2 Gifting
3 Bundles
4 Recipes
5 Tailoring
6 Quests
7 References
8 History
Use
Requires: Fiberglass Rod, Iridium Rod, or Advanced Iridium Rod.
Each cast uses one piece of bait or one magnet. When all bait is used up, the game pops up a notification saying "You've used your last piece of bait."
To attach bait to a fishing rod, open the inventory, click on the bait ( left-click or right-click, depending on how many bait will be used), and then on the rod. To remove bait, on the rod.
On an Xbox controller, press on the bait to select the whole stack (or to pick up a single one), then to attach to the rod.
On a PS4 controller, press on the bait to select the whole stack (or to pick up a single one), then to attach to the rod.
On a Nintendo Switch Controller, Press on the bait to select the whole stack (Or to pick up a single one), then to attach to the rod.
Bait can be detached by pressing on either Controller. ( on Nintendo Switch)
For the mobile version, bait can be added to the fishing rod by opening the inventory, then dragging the bait and dropping it on top of the rod. Bait cannot be removed on mobile.
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Neutral  Linus
Hate  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Wild Bait is not used in any bundles.
Recipes
Wild Bait is not used in any recipes.
Tailoring
Wild Bait is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create a Shirt.
Quests
One or five Wild Bait may be requested by several fish in Fish Pond quests.
References
↑ See FishingRod::calculateTimeUntilFishingBite in the game code.
↑ See CrabPot::DayUpdate in the game code.
History
1.4: Wild Bait now has a chance to catch two fish at once. Can now be obtained from fishing treasure chests once knowing the recipe. Can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in Fish Pond quests.
1.5: Can now be found in artifact spots on Ginger Island.
1.6: Now a neutral gift for Linus. Can be used in the Advanced Iridium Rod. When used in Crab Pots, now decreases the chance of catching trash. Can now be obtained from Golden Fishing Treasure Chests.
1.6.9: Wild Bait now gives Crab Pots a 25% chance to yield double the amount of items.

Equipment
Artisan Bee House • Cask • Cheese Press • Dehydrator • Fish Smoker • Keg • Loom • Mayonnaise Machine • Oil Maker • Preserves Jar
Refining Bait Maker • Bone Mill • Charcoal Kiln • Crystalarium • Deluxe Worm Bin • Furnace • Geode Crusher • Heavy Furnace • Heavy Tapper • Lightning Rod • Mushroom Log • Ostrich Incubator • Recycling Machine • Seed Maker • Slime Egg-Press • Slime Incubator • Solar Panel • Tapper • Wood Chipper • Worm Bin
Farming
Fertilizer Basic Fertilizer • Basic Retaining Soil • Deluxe Fertilizer • Deluxe Retaining Soil • Deluxe Speed-Gro • Hyper Speed-Gro • Quality Fertilizer • Quality Retaining Soil • Speed-Gro • Tree Fertilizer
Sprinklers Iridium Sprinkler • Quality Sprinkler • Sprinkler
Other Deluxe Scarecrow • Garden Pot • Rarecrow • Scarecrow
Fishing
Bait Bait • Challenge Bait • Deluxe Bait • Magic Bait • Magnet • Targeted Bait • Wild Bait
Tackle Barbed Hook • Cork Bobber • Curiosity Lure • Dressed Spinner • Lead Bobber • Quality Bobber • Sonar Bobber • Spinner • Trap Bobber • Treasure Hunter
Other Crab Pot
Bombs Bomb • Cherry Bomb • Mega Bomb
Fences Gate • Hardwood Fence • Iron Fence • Stone Fence • Wood Fence
Storage Big Chest • Big Stone Chest • Chest • Junimo Chest • Mini-Fridge • Stone Chest
Signs Dark Sign • Stone Sign • Text Sign • Wood Sign
Misc Anvil • Coffee Maker • Cookout Kit • Deconstructor • Fairy Dust • Farm Computer • Hopper • Mini-Forge • Mini-Jukebox • Mini-Shipping Bin • Sewing Machine • Staircase • Statue Of Blessings • Statue Of The Dwarf King • Telephone • Tent Kit • Tools • Workbench
Category: Bait