Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Willy
Information
Birthday  Summer 24
Lives In The Beach
Address Fish Shop
Marriage No
Clinic Visit  Spring 9
Loved Gifts
Catfish
Diamond
Gold Bar
Iridium Bar
Jewels Of The Sea
Mead
Octopus
Pumpkin
Sea Cucumber
Sturgeon
The Art O' Crabbing
Albacore
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Relationships
3 Gifts
3.1 Love
3.2 Like
3.3 Neutral
3.4 Dislike
3.5 Hate
4 Movies & Concessions
5 Heart Events
5.1 Three Hearts
5.2 Five Hearts
5.3 Six Hearts
5.4 Seven Hearts
5.5 Nine Hearts
6 Quotes
7 Quests
8 Portraits
9 Trivia
10 History
“ “A true angler has respect for the water... don't you forget that.”
— Willy
Willy is a villager who grew up traveling among the Fern Islands and now lives south of Pelican Town on The Beach. He sells bait and fishing supplies in his shop. His shop is open every day but will be closed on Saturday if the weather is nice enough for him to go fishing.
Schedule
Most days Willy fishes at the beach for a few hours before operating his fish shop between 9am and 5pm. During winter he'll go to the saloon after work.
Willy's shop is closed on Saturday while he's out fishing unless it's raining. Willy never visits the Beach Resort on Ginger Island, though he ferries other villagers to and from the Island.
Shown below are Willy's schedules prioritized highest to lowest. For example, if it is raining, that schedule overrides all others below it.
Expand
Spring 9




Expand
Spring 15, 16 and 17 (Bus Service Restored)
Expand
Summer 20 and 21
Expand
Winter 12 and 13
Expand
Winter 15, 16 and 17
Expand
Green Rain (Year 1)
Expand
Rain

Expand
Friday

Expand
Saturday

Expand
Winter

Expand
Regular Schedule
Relationships
Willy spends most of his time fishing just outside his shop when not operating the sale counters at his shop. He's often seen at the saloon in the evenings, especially during the winter, when he sits with Clint. He lives close to Elliott; the two of them are the only residents of the beach. He is also friends with Elliott.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give Willy up to two gifts per week (plus one on his birthday), which will raise or lower his friendship with you. Gifts on his birthday ( 24 Summer) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved or liked gifts, Willy responds
“ “A birthday gift? That's very kind of you! I love it.”
“ “You remembered my birthday! Thank you. This is great.”
For neutral gifts, Willy responds
“ “Oh, a birthday gift! Thank you.”
For disliked or hated gifts, Willy responds
“ “Oh... It's for my birthday? ... Thanks.”
Love
“ “This is great! If only me ol' Pappy was around. He’d go nuts for this.”
Gold Bar
“ “*chomp*... Yep, that's real gold alright. Heh! What a gift!”
Jewels Of The Sea
“ “Thank ye! This'll be perfect winter reading. Ah, and it even smells of the sea...”
Stardrop Tea
“ “By the stem o' me pipe... a cup o' Stardrop Tea! And here I thought it was only the stuff of mermaid legend. Thank you kindly.”
The Art O' Crabbing
“ “Aye... A timeless classic. Brings a tear to me eye, with every read. A fisherman can never have too many copies! Thank ye.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Loves
Catfish An uncommon fish found in streams. Fishing
Gold Bar A bar of pure gold. Furnace
Diamond A rare and valuable gem. Mining
Iridium Bar A bar of pure iridium. Furnace
Jewels Of The Sea Fishing treasure chests have a chance to yield roe. Books
Mead A fermented beverage made from honey. Drink in moderation. Keg
Octopus A mysterious and intelligent creature. Fishing
Pumpkin A fall favorite, grown for its crunchy seeds and delicately flavored flesh. As a bonus, the hollow shell can be carved into a festive decoration. Farming
Sea Cucumber A slippery, slimy creature found on the ocean floor. Fishing
Sturgeon An ancient bottom-feeder with a dwindling population. Females can live up to 150 years. Fishing
The Art O' Crabbing Crab pots have a 25% chance to yield double. Books
Albacore Prefers temperature "edges" where cool and warm water meet. Fishing
Like
“ “This looks great. Thank you!”
Bait And Bobber
“ “Ah, 'Bait And Bobber'... Every angler ought to have a subscription, but it costs a pretty penny. Taught me a lot of good fishin' tips over the years. Thanks!”
Coffee
“ “Ah, this stuff warms the ol' bones. Thank you.”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Likes (except Life Elixir, and All Cooking except for the fish dishes he is neutral towards: Dish O' The Sea, Maki Roll, & Sashimi; and the fish dishes he likes, shown below).
Bait And Bobber Read this to gain some fishing experience. Books
Baked Fish Baked fish on a bed of herbs. Cooking
Sunfish (1)
Bream (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Carp Surprise It's bland and oily. Cooking
Carp (4)
Chowder A perfect way to warm yourself after a cold night at sea. Cooking
Clam (1)
Milk (1)
Crab Cakes Crab, bread crumbs, and egg formed into patties then fried to a golden brown. Cooking
Crab (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Egg (1)
Oil (1)
Crispy Bass Wow, the breading is perfect. Cooking
Largemouth Bass (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Oil (1)
Escargot Butter-soaked snails cooked to perfection. Cooking
Snail (1)
Garlic (1)
Fish Stew It smells a lot like the sea. Tastes better, though. Cooking
Crayfish (1)
Mussel (1)
Periwinkle (1)
Tomato (1)
Fish Taco It smells delicious. Cooking
Tuna (1)
Tortilla (1)
Red Cabbage (1)
Mayonnaise (1)
Fried Calamari It's so chewy. Cooking
Squid (1)
Wheat Flour (1)
Oil (1)
Fried Eel Greasy but flavorful. Cooking
Eel (1)
Oil (1)
Lingcod A fearsome predator that will eat almost anything it can cram into its mouth. Fishing
Lobster Bisque This delicate soup is a secret family recipe of Willy's. Cooking
Lobster (1)
Milk (1)
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - Mines
Salmon Dinner The lemon spritz makes it special. Cooking
Salmon (1)
Amaranth (1)
Kale (1)
Seafoam Pudding This briny pudding will really get you into the maritime mindset! Cooking
Flounder (1)
Midnight Carp (1)
Squid Ink (1)
Tiger Trout A rare hybrid trout that cannot bear offspring of its own. Fishing
Trout Soup Pretty salty. Cooking
Rainbow Trout (1)
Green Algae (1)
Neutral
“ “A gift! Thanks.”
Mutant Carp
“ “The horror! ...What kind of monster is this?”
Image Name Description Source Ingredients
All Universal Neutrals (except Bait And Bobber, Jewels Of The Sea, & The Art O' Crabbing)
All Eggs (except Void Egg)*
All Fish (except Carp, Catfish, Lingcod, Octopus, Sea Cucumber, Snail, Sturgeon, & Tiger Trout)
All Fruit (except Fruit Tree Fruit & Salmonberry)
All Milk
Dish O' The Sea This'll keep you warm in the cold sea air. Cooking
Sardine (2)
Hashbrowns (1)
Maki Roll Fish and rice wrapped in seaweed. Cooking Any Fish (1)
Seaweed (1)
Rice (1)
Sashimi Raw fish sliced into thin pieces. Cooking Any Fish (1)
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Dislike
“ “Hmmm... You like stuff like this? Huh.”
Triple Shot Espresso
“ “Ah, this stuff warms the ol' bones. Thank you.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Fish, Gold Bar, & Iridium Bar)
All Cooking (except Baked Fish, Bread, Carp Surprise, Chowder, Crab Cakes, Crispy Bass, Dish O' The Sea, Escargot, Fish Stew, Fish Taco, Fried Calamari, Fried Eel, Fried Egg, Lobster Bisque, Maki Roll, Salmon Dinner, Sashimi, Seafoam Pudding, Strange Bun, & Trout Soup)
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Life Elixir Restores health to full. Crafting
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Salmonberry A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest. Foraging - Spring
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
Hate
“ “... *sniff*... Well I guess I can toss it into the chum bucket.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates (except Seafoam Pudding)
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
N/A
Like
It Howls In The Rain
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Mysterium
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Wumbus
Dislike
N/A
Love
Salmon Burger
Stardrop Sorbet
Like
Chocolate Popcorn
Fries
Ice Cream Sandwich
Jasmine Tea
Nachos
Personal Pizza
Popcorn
Salted Peanuts
Star Cookie
Truffle Popcorn
Dislike
Everything else
Heart Events
Three Hearts
After reaching three hearts with Willy he will send you a recipe in the mail.
Expand
Details 
Five Hearts
After reaching five hearts with Willy he will send you a recipe in the mail.
Expand
Details 
Six Hearts
Enter The Beach between 6am and 5:10pm.
Expand
Details 
Seven Hearts
After reaching seven hearts with Willy he will send you a recipe in the mail.
Expand
Details 
Nine Hearts
After reaching nine hearts with Willy he will send you a recipe in the mail.
Expand
Details 
Quotes
Expand
Regular 
Expand
Events 
Quests
"To The Beach": Willy will send you a letter on the 2nd of Spring asking you to meet him on the beach south of town. The reward is a Bamboo Pole.
"Catch a Squid": Willy will send you a letter on the 2nd of Winter asking you to catch and bring him a Squid. The reward is 800g and 1 Friendship heart.
"Catch a Lingcod": Willy will send you a letter on the 13th of Winter, year 2, asking you to catch and bring him a Lingcod. The reward is 550g and 1 Friendship heart.
Fishing: Willy may randomly request that you catch a certain number of a specific fish from the current season at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the fish's base value (per fish). (You get to keep the fish).
Item Delivery: Willy may request that you bring him a random item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
Willy is to be gifted the Wriggling Worm in The Pirate's Wife quest.
"Juicy Bugs Wanted!": On the Special Orders board in front of the Mayor's Manor, Willy may randomly request that the player collect 100 Bug Meat and place it in the bin next to the Fish Shop. The reward is 3,000g and the Quality Bobber recipe.
"Tropical Fish": On the Special Orders board in front of the Mayor's Manor, Willy may randomly request that the player catch 5 Stingray, 5 Blue Discus, and 5 Lionfish. The reward is 2,500g and a Deluxe Fish Tank. Completing this special order also unlocks the Deluxe Fish Tank for sale at the Fish Shop. This special order requires Ginger Island to be unlocked and the Island Resort to be built.
Willy offers a different fishing quest for each day of the Desert Festival:
Spring 15: He challenges the player to catch 3 Sandfish. The reward is 25.
Spring 16: He challenges the player to catch 1 Scorpion Carp. The reward is 50.
Spring 17: He asks the player to return his Golden Bobber. The reward is 30.
Portraits
Trivia
At one point before the game was released, Willy was named "Dick".
It is implied that Willy catches fish for a living. However, the only time the player sees Willy catch a fish is at the Festival of Ice.
One Pearl may be obtained from Willy after filling a Fish Pond with 10 Crabs.
Willy's shirt can be tailored with 1 Cloth and 1 Dish O' The Sea, creating the Shirt O' The Sea.
History
1.3.27: Added 6-heart event.
1.4: Fixed bug where all recipes would be sent at 3 friendship hearts. Willy now is neutral towards Dish O' The Sea, Maki Roll, and Sashimi. Fixed bug where skipping intro cutscene would not count towards introductions quest.
1.6: Added custom gift reactions. Added dialogue. Added winter portraits. Added 3 new fishing quests for the Desert Festival. Willy now loves Gold Bar and likes Escargot.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs