Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Wine
Drink in moderation.
Information
Source Artisan Goods
Buff(s)
Tipsy
Speed (−1)
Buff Duration
30s
Sell Prices
Base Artisan (+40%)
3 × Base Fruit Price 1.4 × Base Wine Price
Artisan Goods
Equipment
Keg
Processing Time
10,000m (≈7d)
Ingredients Any Fruit (1)
For a detailed analysis of profit using the Keg, see Keg Productivity.
For a full list of wine prices, see Fruits.
Wine is an Artisan Good made from the Keg, taking 7 days. It can also be received as a gift at the Feast of the Winter Star.
The sell price of Wine depends on the fruit used (3 × Base Fruit Value). When consumed, wine causes a Tipsy buff that decreases Speed by 1. The energy and health restored by Wine is equal to 1.75 × Base Fruit Value for edible fruit. For inedible fruit, Wine will restore energy equal to 25% Base Fruit Value and health equal to 11.25% Base Fruit Value.[1] The color of the Wine also depends on the fruit used.
Note: It is possible to acquire Wine that has no base fruit (from the Traveling Cart or a Statue Of Endless Fortune, as a gift at the Feast of the Winter Star, or a New Year's Eve gift from Leah or Elliott). This item is simply titled "Wine", has a selling price of 400g (or 560g with the Artisan Profession), and restores 50 energy and 22 health.
Contents
1 Aged Values
2 Gifting
3 Bundles
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 References
7 History
Aged Values
Wine can be placed inside a Cask to age from normal quality to silver, gold, and eventually iridium quality. Iridium quality doubles the base sell price of Wine.
Wine takes the longest to age of any item in Casks. It takes 2 seasons of aging to go from basic wine to iridium quality wine.
Normal, silver, and gold quality Wine can be prematurely removed from a cask at any time by striking the cask with an Axe, Hoe, or Pickaxe.
Normal Quality Silver Quality
(x 1.25) Gold Quality
(x 1.5) Iridium Quality
(x 2)
3 × Fruit Base Sell Price
(3 × Base) × 1.25
Aged: 14 Days
(3 × Base) × 1.50
Aged: 14 Days
Total: 28 Days
(3 × Base) × 2
Aged: 28 Days
Total: 56 Days
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Harvey •  Leah
Like  Abigail •  Alex •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Pierre •  Robin •  Sam •  Sandy •  Shane •  Willy •  Wizard
Hate  Jas •  Leo •  Penny •  Sebastian •  Vincent
Bundles
Wine is used in the Enchanter's Bundle on the Bulletin Board.
One silver (or better) quality wine is an option for The Missing Bundle in the abandoned JojaMart.
Wine is one of the options for the Brewer's Bundle in the Pantry (Remixed).
Tailoring
Wine can be used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Black Leather Jacket. It can be used in dyeing, serving as a purple dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
One Wine (of any type) may be requested by Blobfish in a Fish Pond quest to increase the capacity of the pond from 5 to 7.
References
↑ See ObjectDataDefinition::CreateFlavoredWine in the game code.
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Added ability to age in casks.
1.4: Added the Missing Bundle. Wine can now be used in Tailoring. Can be requested in a Blobfish Fish Pond quest.
1.5: Is now an option in the Brewer's Bundle.
1.6: Wine now changes color depending on the fruit used to make it. Broke texture of basic wine.
1.6.2: Fixed texture of basic wine. Health and Energy now scales with base fruit's values.
Artisan Goods
Bee House Honey
Cask Beer • Cheese • Goat Cheese • Mead • Pale Ale • Wine
Cheese Press Cheese • Goat Cheese
Keg Beer • Coffee • Green Tea • Juice • Mead • Pale Ale • Wine
Loom Cloth
Mayonnaise Machine Dinosaur Mayonnaise • Duck Mayonnaise • Mayonnaise • Void Mayonnaise
Oil Maker Oil • Truffle Oil
Preserves Jar Aged Roe • Caviar • Jellies and Pickles
Fish Smoker Smoked Fish
Dehydrator Dried Mushrooms • Dried Fruit • Raisins
Misc Maple Syrup • Oak Resin • Pine Tar • Mystic Syrup
Category: Artisan Goods