Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Winter Root
A starchy tuber.
Information
Source Tilling • Winter Seeds • Blue Slimes
Season  Winter
XP
Tilling: 0
Winter Seeds: 7 Foraging XP
Blue Slimes: 0
Energy / Health
25
11
35
15
45
20
65
29
Sell Price
70g
87g
105g
140g
Artisan Sell Prices
Base Artisan (+40%)
157g
190g
219g
266g
The Winter Root is a foraging item found only in Winter. Wild winter roots do not grow above ground, but instead they are buried in the snow/dirt and must be dug up with a Hoe (no other tools, even Bombs, will work).
The highest chance of finding a Winter Root (17-24%, map-dependent) is when digging up an Artifact Spot.[1] There is also a 4% chance of finding a Winter Root when digging standard tillable soil in any exterior location.[2] Exceptions are in the Farm, where Winter Roots can be found at artifact spots, but not standard tillable soil, and both the Desert and Ginger Island, where Winter Roots can not be found at all. Digging up a Winter Root provides no experience.
Winter Roots can also be grown from Winter Seeds, in which case they are a standard wild-seed crop: they grow above ground, can be harvested without using a tool, give 7 Foraging XP each, and are affected by the Gatherer and Botanist professions.
Occasionally they may be sold at the Traveling Cart or found in Garbage Cans in Winter. They may also be dropped by Blue Slimes (8% chance) in The Mines (floors 41-79) or Secret Woods. One Winter Root can sometimes be purchased for 500g from Pierre's booth at the Feast of the Winter Star.
Putting a Winter Root in a Seed Maker will generate 1-3 Winter Seeds.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Recipes
3.1 Cooking
3.2 Crafting
4 Tailoring
5 Quests
6 Trivia
7 References
8 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Like  Harvey •  Leah •  Linus
Neutral  Abigail •  Alex •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Kent •  Lewis •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Penny •  Robin •  Sandy
Dislike  Caroline •  Dwarf •  Elliott •  Haley •  Jas •  Jodi •  Krobus •  Leo •  Pierre •  Sam •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Bundles
Winter Root is used in the Winter Foraging Bundle in the Crafts Room.
Recipes
Cooking
Image Name Description Ingredients Energy / Health Buff(s) Buff Duration Recipe Source(s) Sell Price
Roots Platter This'll get you digging for more.
Cave Carrot (1)
Winter Root (1)
125
56
Attack (+3)
5m 35s
Combat Level 3
100g
Crafting
Image Name Description Ingredients Recipe Source Sell Price
Wild Seeds (Wi) An assortment of wild winter seeds.
(Produces 10 Winter Seeds per craft.)
Crocus (1)
Crystal Fruit (1)
Snow Yam (1)
Winter Root (1)
Foraging Level 7 30g
Tailoring
Winter Root is used in the spool of the Sewing Machine to create the Orange Bow Shirt. It can be used in dyeing, serving as an orange dye at the dye pots, located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane.
Quests
Winter Root may be randomly requested in Winter at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store for a reward of 140g and 150 Friendship points.
Trivia
Winter Roots are the only winter forageable that can be directly put into the Seed Maker.
References
↑ The chance of appearing in an artifact spot is calculated by GameLocation::digUpArtifactSpot. The base chance in code is 30% (0.5*0.6), but the actual chance is lower because artifacts and lost books are checked first and must all fail their checks.
↑ The chance of appearing in standard tillable soil is calculated by GameLocation::checkForBuriedItem.
History
1.4: Winter Root can no longer be dug up in the Desert in Winter. Can now be used in Tailoring.
1.6: Now sometimes sold at the Feast of the Winter Star. Can now be made into Juice and Pickles.
Foraging
Basic Sap
Spring Common Mushroom • Daffodil • Dandelion • Leek • Morel • Salmonberry • Spring Onion • Wild Horseradish
Summer Fiddlehead Fern • Grape • Red Mushroom • Spice Berry • Sweet Pea
Fall Blackberry • Chanterelle • Common Mushroom • Hazelnut • Wild Plum
Winter Crocus • Crystal Fruit • Holly • Snow Yam • Winter Root
The Beach Clam • Cockle • Coral • Mussel • Nautilus Shell • Oyster • Rainbow Shell • Sea Urchin • Seaweed
The Mines Cave Carrot • Purple Mushroom • Red Mushroom
The Desert Cactus Fruit • Coconut
Skull Cavern Dinosaur Egg • Fiddlehead Fern
Ginger Island Ginger • Magma Cap
Category: Winter Forage