Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Wizard's Tower
Open Hours: 6:00am to 11:00pm
Occupants:
Wizard
The Wizard's Tower is the home of the Wizard. It is located at the western edge of Cindersap Forest and is open from 6am-11pm.
The door to the Wizard's Tower is locked until the day the player receives in the mail an invitation from the Wizard to visit him there. This day is the first non-holiday after the player enters the Community Center and reads the golden scroll in the Crafts Room, or else purchases a JojaMart Membership. The visit unlocks the player's ability to read the Junimo language, which in turn enables bundles to be donated to the Community Center.
Contents
1 Basement Room
2 Buildings
3 Gallery
4 History
Basement Room
After reaching four hearts with the Wizard, players will gain access to a basement where they can change their name, gender, favorite thing, and the appearance they set at character creation. The Shrine of Illusions requires an offering of 500g each time it is used.
In late game, after players complete the quest Goblin Problem to gain passage to the Witch's Hut a teleportation rune will activate in the basement, allowing free passage between the basement room and the Witch's Hut anytime.
After obtaining the Far Away Stone the player can use it on the stone in the corner to obtain the Meowmere.
The basement room with the teleporter to the Witch's Hut
Buildings
For the traditional farm Buildings, see Farm Buildings.
After retrieving the Wizard's Magic Ink, he'll make some unique buildings available for sale. After unlocking Ginger Island as well, the Island Obelisk will become available. These buildings require no build time, but are very expensive.
To summon buildings, interact with the magic book inside the tower. The construction menu opened by the book functions the same as that in the Carpenter's Shop, allowing the player to move, paint, or demolish farm buildings.
Image Name Description Cost Size
Earth Obelisk Warps you to the mountains. 500,000g
Iridium Bar (10)
Earth Crystal (10)
3x2
Water Obelisk Warps you to the beach. 500,000g
Iridium Bar (5)
Clam (10)
Coral (10)
3x2
Desert Obelisk Warps you to the desert. 1,000,000g
Iridium Bar (20)
Coconut (10)
Cactus Fruit (10)
3x2
Island Obelisk Warps you to Ginger Island. 1,000,000g
Iridium Bar (10)
Dragon Tooth (10)
Banana (10)
3x2
Junimo Hut Junimos will harvest crops around the hut for you. 20,000g
Stone (200)
Starfruit (9)
Fiber (100)
3x2
Gold Clock Prevents debris from appearing on your farm. Keeps fences from decaying. 10,000,000g 3x2
Gallery
Interior
History
1.0: Introduced.
1.1: Added buildings for purchase. Added teleporter to Witch's Hut in basement.
1.4: Added Desert Obelisk for purchase. Changed options in The Shrine of Illusions.
1.4.3: Fixed a bug where the tower could be entered before unlocking the Community Center.
1.5: Added Island Obelisk for purchase. Reduced price of Earth Obelisk and Water Obelisk from 1,000,000g to 500,000g. Added ability to change name and gender in The Shrine of Illusions. Added Paint Buildings to construction menu.
1.6: Added the plant pedestal for obtaining the Meowmere. Removed ability to change pet style in the Shrine of Illusions.
Buildings
Merchants Abandoned House • Adventurer's Guild • Blacksmith • Bookseller • Carpenter's Shop • Casino • Desert Trader • Fish Shop • Giant Stump • Harvey's Clinic • Ice Cream Stand • Island Trader • JojaMart • Marnie's Ranch • Oasis • Pierre's General Store • Qi's Walnut Room • The Stardrop Saloon • Traveling Cart • Volcano Dwarf • Wizard's Tower
Houses 1 River Road • 2 River Road • 1 Willow Lane • 2 Willow Lane • 24 Mountain Road • Elliott's Cabin • Farmhouse • Island Farmhouse • Leah's Cottage • Mayor's Manor • Tent • Trailer • Treehouse
Farm Buildings Farming Barn • Cabin • Coop • Fish Pond • Greenhouse • Mill • Pet Bowl • Shed • Silo • Slime Hutch • Stable • Well
Special Desert Obelisk • Earth Obelisk • Farm Obelisk • Gold Clock • Island Obelisk • Junimo Hut • Water Obelisk
Other Buildings Community Center • Dog Pen • Island Field Office • Joja Warehouse • Movie Theater • Museum • Spa • Witch's Hut
Categories: Forest LocationsStores