Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Wizard
Information
Birthday  Winter 17
Lives In Cindersap Forest
Address Wizard's Tower
Marriage No
Loved Gifts
Book of Mysteries
Purple Mushroom
Solar Essence
Super Cucumber
Void Essence
Contents
1 Schedule
2 Gifts
2.1 Love
2.2 Like
2.3 Neutral
2.4 Dislike
2.5 Hate
3 Movies & Concessions
4 Heart Events
4.1 Anytime
4.2 Four Hearts
5 Quotes
6 Quests
7 Trivia
8 Portraits
9 History
“ “Wizard studies the spirit world from his tower in cindersap forest. He is fluent in many elemental languages.”
— Steam Description
The Wizard, also known as M. Rasmodius, is a villager who lives in the Wizard's Tower to the far west of Cindersap Forest.
Schedule
The Wizard does not leave the Wizard's Tower (except for certain Festival days), and can be found there when the tower is accessible (6am to 11pm). After the player has unlocked the Witch's Hut, he can be found in his tower after 11pm by using the warp spot in the Witch's Hut. The Wizard never visits the Beach Resort on Ginger Island.
Gifts
Main article: Friendship
See also: List of All Gifts
You can give the Wizard up to two gifts per week (plus one on his birthday), which will raise or lower his friendship with you. Gifts on his birthday ( 17 Winter) will have 8× effect and show a unique dialogue.
For loved or liked gifts, the Wizard responds
“ “You remembered my birthday? I'm impressed. Thanks.”
“ “Oh, is it my birthday today? I guess it is. Thanks. This is nice.”
For neutral gifts, the Wizard responds
“ “For my birthday? Thanks.”
For disliked or hated gifts, the Wizard responds
“ “It's my birthday and you give me this? Is this some kind of joke?”
Love
“ “Ahh, this is imbued with potent arcane energies. It's very useful for my studies. Thank you!”
Stardrop Tea
“ “ Ah, what do we have here? A rare and potent elixir, it seems. Yes, this will make a fine addition to my reagent chest.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Loves
Book of Mysteries You have a slightly greater chance to find Mystery Boxes. Mystery Box
Purple Mushroom A rare mushroom found deep in caves. Foraging - The Mines
Solar Essence The glowing face is warm to the touch. Monster Loot
Super Cucumber A rare, purple variety of sea cucumber. Fishing
Void Essence It's quivering with dark energy. Monster Loot
Like
“ “Many thanks. This item has some very interesting properties.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Likes
All Geode Minerals
All Trinkets
Iridium Bar A bar of pure iridium. Furnace
Quartz A clear crystal commonly found in caves and mines. Foraging - Mines
Neutral
“ “Thank you, this will prove useful, I think.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Neutrals (except Book of Mysteries)
All Fruit (except Fruit Tree Fruit & Salmonberry)
Dislike
“ “This?... I suppose I'll cast it into the flames and see what happens.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Dislikes (except Geode Minerals, Iridium Bar, Solar Essence, Super Cucumber, Trinkets, & Void Essence)
All Eggs*
All Milk
Chanterelle A tasty mushroom with a fruity smell and slightly peppery flavor. Foraging - Fall
Common Mushroom Slightly nutty, with good texture. Foraging - Fall
Daffodil A traditional spring flower that makes a nice gift. Foraging - Spring
Dandelion Not the prettiest flower, but the leaves make a good salad. Foraging - Spring
Ginger This sharp, spicy root is said to increase vitality. Foraging - Ginger Island
Hazelnut That's one big hazelnut! Foraging - Fall
Holly The leaves and bright red berries make a popular winter decoration. Foraging - Winter
Leek A tasty relative of the onion. Foraging - Spring
Magma Cap A very rare mushroom that lives next to pools of lava. Foraging - Volcano Dungeon
Morel Sought after for its unique nutty flavor. Foraging - Spring
Salmonberry A spring-time berry with the flavor of the forest. Foraging - Spring
Slime A shimmering, gelatinous glob with no smell. Slimes, Krobus, Slime Ball
Snow Yam This little yam was hiding beneath the snow. Foraging - Winter
Wild Horseradish A spicy root found in the spring. Foraging - Spring
Winter Root A starchy tuber. Foraging - Winter
*Note that Dinosaur Eggs are considered Artifacts and not Eggs for gifting purposes.
Hate
“ “Ughh... These are utterly mundane. Please refrain from bothering me with this in the future.”
Image Name Description Source
All Universal Hates (except Slime)
Movies & Concessions
Main article: Movie Theater
Love
Mysterium
Like
N/A
Dislike
It Howls In The Rain
Journey Of The Prairie King: The Motion Picture
Natural Wonders: Exploring Our Vibrant World
The Brave Little Sapling
The Miracle At Coldstar Ranch
The Zuzu City Express
Wumbus
Love
Black Licorice
Star Cookie
Stardrop Sorbet
Like
Cotton Candy
Ice Cream Sandwich
Jasmine Tea
Jawbreaker
Rock Candy
Salmon Burger
Sour Slimes
Dislike
Everything else
Heart Events
Anytime
At any friendship level greater than zero friendship points, you may receive a gift in the mail from the Wizard. The chance of receiving a gift in the mail increases as your friendship with the Wizard increases.
Details 
Four Hearts
Players gain access to the basement of the Wizard's Tower, where they can change their character's appearance at The Shrine of Illusions for 500g.
Quotes
Regular 
Events 


Quests
"Meet the Wizard": The morning after examining the golden scroll in the Crafts Room of the Community Center, the Wizard will send you a letter saying he has information for you. Visit the Wizard's Tower and he will give you a potion that allows you to read the language of the Junimos.
"A Dark Reagent": The Wizard will send you a letter on the 12th of Winter requesting that you bring him a Void Essence. The reward is 1,000g and 1 Friendship heart.
"Staff of Power": The Wizard will send you a letter on the 5th of Winter, year 2, requesting that you bring him an Iridium Bar. The reward is 5,000g and 1 Friendship heart.
"Dark Talisman": After completing the Community Center Bundles or the Joja Community Development Form, trigger a cutscene at the Railroad, where the Wizard will request that you find a Dark Talisman. Speak to Krobus in The Sewers, who will remove the force-field blocking the entrance to the Mutant Bug Lair. Obtain the Dark Talisman from a chest in the Mutant Bug Lair, then bring it back to the Railroad area and place it on the artifact blocking the cave. Inside the cave is a teleportation rune which leads to the Witch's Swamp. This unlocks The "Goblin Problem" Quest.
"Goblin Problem": Once inside the Witch's Swamp, the Witch's Henchman will be blocking the way to the Witch's Hut. He will only allow the player to pass if he is given Void Mayonnaise, which completes the quest Goblin Problem and gives access to the Dark Shrines inside the Witch's Hut. Recover the Magic Ink inside the Witch's Hut, then bring the ink back to the Wizard, who will unlock six Wizard buildings for The Farm.
The Wizard may request that you slay a certain number of Monsters or bring him a random item at the "Help Wanted" board outside Pierre's General Store. The reward for slaying monsters varies by the number/type of monster, but is always an amount of gold. The reward for an item delivery quest is 3x the item's base value and 150 Friendship points.
The Wizard is to be gifted the Arctic Shard in The Pirate's Wife quest.
"A Curious Substance": On the Special Orders board in front of the Mayor's Manor, the Wizard may randomly request that the player obtain and bring him an Ectoplasm. The reward is 2,500g and the Mini-Obelisk recipe.
"Prismatic Jelly": On the Special Orders board in front of the Mayor's Manor, the Wizard may randomly request that the player obtain and bring him a Prismatic Jelly. The reward is 5,000g and the Monster Musk recipe.
Trivia
Because the door to his house is locked at the start of the game, the Wizard does not count towards the introductions quest.
The Wizard's Tower is unlocked upon purchasing a Joja membership. After that, the player must speak with him at any time (including during Festivals) to commence friendship.
Despite being unreachable in most festivals, the Wizard has unique dialogue for every festival, some with backstory on the events.
The Wizard's shirt can be tailored with 1 Cloth and 1 Void Essence, creating the Arcane Shirt.
Portraits
History
1.3.27: Added unique blue stationery used exclusively for letters from the Wizard.
1.5: Added "A Curious Substance" and "Prismatic Jelly" quests.
1.6: Now likes Iridium Bar.
Villagers
Bachelors Alex • Elliott • Harvey • Sam • Sebastian • Shane
Bachelorettes Abigail • Emily • Haley • Leah • Maru • Penny
Townspeople Caroline • Clint • Demetrius • Evelyn • George • Gil • Gunther • Gus • Jas • Jodi • Kent • Lewis • Linus • Marlon • Marnie • Morris • Pam • Pierre • Robin • Vincent • Willy
Other Birdie • Bouncer • Dwarf • Fizz • Governor • Grandpa • Henchman • Junimos • Krobus • Leo • Mr. Qi • Old Mariner • Professor Snail • Sandy • Wizard
Category: NPCs