Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Woody's Secret
Felled trees have a 5% chance to yield double the wood.
Information
Source Trees • Bookseller
Sell Price 500g
Woody's Secret is a power book that can be obtained by chopping trees. The chance for a tree to drop it starts at 0.03% and increases by 0.001% for each tree chopped until it is dropped. Then the chance stays at 0.1% permanently. It cannot drop until the player has chopped more than 20 trees.[1]
It can also be purchased from the Bookseller for 20,000g starting in Year 3 (≈9% chance to appear).[2]
The first reading grants the player a power that gives felled trees a 5% chance to yield double wood. This effect stacks with the Forester profession but not with the Lumberjack profession.[3] Once read, it can be found in the Player's menu on the Special Items & Powers tab. Each subsequent reading gives the player 100 Foraging XP.
Contents
1 Gifting
2 Bundles
3 Tailoring
4 Quests
5 Trading
6 References
7 History
Gifting
Villager Reactions
Love  Penny •  Robin
Like  Elliott
Neutral  Abigail •  Caroline •  Clint •  Demetrius •  Dwarf •  Emily •  Evelyn •  George •  Gus •  Haley •  Harvey •  Jas •  Jodi •  Kent •  Krobus •  Leah •  Leo •  Lewis •  Linus •  Marnie •  Maru •  Pam •  Pierre •  Sam •  Sandy •  Sebastian •  Shane •  Vincent •  Willy •  Wizard
Dislike  Alex
Bundles
Woody's Secret is not used in any bundles.
Tailoring
Woody's Secret is not used in any tailoring. It can be used in dyeing, serving as an orange dye at the dye pots located in Emily's and Haley's house, 2 Willow Lane. It can also be used as a brown dye when used in the spool of the Sewing Machine with a dyeable clothing item in the feed.
Quests
Woody's Secret is not used in any quests.
Trading
One Woody's Secret can be traded to the Bookseller for 20 Hardwood, provided the player has already obtained the power from this book.
References
↑ See Tree::performToolAction in the game code.
↑ See Data\Shops.xnb in the game files.
↑ See Tree::tickUpdate in the game code.
History
1.6: Introduced.
Category: Books